Karthik K
Email: 
(224) 650-7424
Summary of Experience:
Over 8 years of experience in the field of Web Application Development including
Client/Server with proficiency in C#, ASP.NET, ADO.Net, .Net Core, MVC, HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap.
Experience in implementing all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle from understanding requirement specification, writing technical specification, software design, coding, implementation and testing.
Expertise in Front End editors like Visual Studio 2015, SharePoint Designer 2007, Sublime Text2 and Microsoft Expression Web.
Worked on ASP.NET Controls (Data controls, Validation controls, Common controls).
Good experience with data access methods like ADO, ADO.NET and Entity Framework
Very Strong in developing responsive web applications using HTML, CSS, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, ASP.NET and MVC.
Experience in Cross browser compatibility testing and intellectual challenges in User Experience (UX), Responsive Web Design and Bootstrap.
Responsible for designing the ASP.NET application authentication using .NET Framework, Model View Controller MVC and IIS security model.
Experience in Development and Deployment of High-Performance, Scalable, Distributed, ASP.NET, ASP.NET MVC and SQL Server 2008/2012/2016 applications.
Application Development/Maintenance and Production Support Activities
Strong knowledge in ASP.NET, C#, VB.NET, Telerik Product, VB 6.0, VBA and SQL.
Good knowledge in WCF & WPF Applications.
Experience in SQL Server, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Queries, Indexes, Transactions, and cursors.
Expertise in development of Web Forms and WIN Forms using C#.
Strong hands on programming, design, understanding and deep functional experience in creating, deploying and consuming of XML Web Services, WCF services, REST Services and Web API
Experienced in XML Web Services like SOAP, WSDL, and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) concepts using .NET Framework. 
Expertise in installing, developing and deploying on application/web servers such as IIS 5.0/IIS 6.0/IIS7.0
Proficient with container systems like Docker and container orchestration like EC2 Container Service, Kubernetes, worked with Terraform.
Virtualized the servers using Docker for the test environments and dev-environments needs, also configuration automation using Docker containers.
Experienced in Database optimization and developing stored procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Joins, Views, Cursors and SQL on databases: SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle10g.
Expertise in generating Business reports using Reporting tools like Crystal Reports & SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and using SSIS for developing packages.
Strong knowledge of Extraction Transformation and Loading (ETL) processes using SQL, PL/SQL and SQL Loader
Extensive experience of working in Test driven development (TDD) and Agile development environment.
Responsible for developing mobile applications for both Android and iOS using Xamarin and Visual studio   in C#.
Created Entity classes, relationships between entity classes using LINQ to Entities, LINQ to SQL and Enterprise Library to manage relational data as objects.
Prepared Functional and Unit test cases and also with that Executing the test cases and test logs, Code review, Error Tracking and Bug fixing.
Strong in Business requirement analysis and functional specification design and documentation
Experience in using Configuration management tools (Version Controllers) like SVN, VSS, Clear Case and Team Foundation Server (TFS).
Experience in Interacting with clients/users to gather the user requirements and excellent written and verbal communication skills.
Good communication, analytical and interpersonal skills; ability to perform as part of a team as well as an individually under pressure.
Technical Skills:
Educational Details:
Master’s in Information Technology from University of Mary Hardin Baylor, July 2015, Belton, TX
Bachelor’s in Computer Science from JNT University (2008-2012), Hyderabad, INDIA
Professional Experience:
Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD), Los Angeles, CA                                                                                                                                        
Role: Team Lead/ Sr.Net Developer/ Sr. SQL Developer
Aug 2016 - Present
Description:
Working for MiSiS application as a .Net Developer at Los Angeles Unified School District, Second largest in the nation. The Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) enrolls more than 640,000 students in kindergarten through 12th grade, at over 900 schools, and 187 public charter schools. 
MiSiS application provides teachers, counselors, administrators, and others to access student information. MiSiS is a mission critical Student Information System tracking the entire student education trajectory. It not only maintains students’ academic progress and ESL information but also their health and allowed student demographics. Teachers use MiSiS to understand student’s educational histories, needs and goals and match them to the programs that fit those needs. LAUSD is also able to maintain state compliance through MiSiS. This project involves in the maintenance and enhancement of Student Information system application for the public school district in LA, California. 
Certify is a data validation tool that assists schools to detect data errors in MiSiS Certify is being implemented in LAUSD to develop a simple, streamlined approach that will help schools improve the accuracy, consistency, and completeness of their MiSiS data. Certify offers a data validation solution using District-defined rules to review functional areas such as enrollment, attendance, and scheduling.
Responsibilities:
Participated in KT sessions, prepare minutes of meeting, system appreciation documents, and understand the application dependencies.
Participate in business and system requirements session.
Onsite and Offshore coordination.
Guide the team in developing the optimized high quality code deliverables, perform code reviews and unit test plan reviews, and conduct independent testing.
Interact with clients to elicit architectural and non-functional requirements like performance, scalability, availability, reliability, maintainability.
Follows Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement Gathering, Design, Coding and Unit Testing.
Requirements elicitation and translation to technical specifications.
Design applications based on identified architecture and support implementation of design by resolving complex technical issues faced by the IT project team during development, deployment and support.
Collaborated with team members in design, analysis, coding, testing, and website review.
Extensively involved in developing components for Business layer and Data Layer, implementation in MVC architecture.
Used Razor view Engine for Creating Multiple Views and Created Custom HTML helpers to modify view to reduce the amount of tedious typing of HTML tags.
Built the reusable service components using Angular 4 services with Object Oriented JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS3 based on the visual designs.
Experience with the features of Angular 2 such as directives, modules and routing.
Used Angular 4 router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modals
Created Web API/ REST API for accessing business as JSON object for admin portal
Replaced asp.net handlers by designing REST Web API Controller and consumed REST API in application.
Designed, developed, maintained Application using C#, ASP.NET 4.5, MVC 5.0, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, HTML, CSS.
Worked with JQuery and typescript for the development of the UI.
Effectively used ASP.NET core security infrastructure for authenticating and authorizing user access as well as performing other security related tasks using C# .NET.
Writing Queries using T-SQL Statements, views, user defined functions, stored procedures for inserting/updating/deleting the data into the relational tables.
Used SQL Server as data repository, used LINQ to SQL together with Entity Framework 7.0 writing data access classes, stored procedures, triggers, views to capture and modify data.
Involved in writing and managing T-SQL, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and SSIS Packages to meet the business requirements.
Deploys Stored Procedures and SSIS packages
Proficient in using transformations like data formatting, check points, error handling, email notifications in SSIS packages.
Extract Transform and Load data from Sources Systems to Azure Data Storage services using a combination of Azure Data Factory, T-SQL, Spark SQL and U-SQL Azure Data Lake Analytics. Data Ingestion to one or more Azure Services - (Azure Storage, Azure SQL, Azure DW) and processing the data in In Azure Databricks.
Worked on development of applications for Android and iOS with Xamarin forms, and responsible for building Mobile applications using Xamarin Studio.
Used Xamarin.iOS and Xamarin.Android for creating native user interface.
Provided updates and changes to new and existing Crystal Reports as per business needs.
Publish and schedule the reports in Crystal Enterprise using Crystal Management Console so that reports are accessed from Front-end application
Created SSIS Packages using SSIS Designer for export heterogeneous data from OLE DB Source (Oracle), Excel Spreadsheet to SQL Server 2012/2016.
Generated data migration and transformation using SSIS and built reports with SSRS.
Monitored and Optimized SSIS package performance to reach the expected timeframe for data loading
Creating Jobs, scheduling & running jobs and troubleshooting the failed jobs.
Expertise in Monitoring and troubleshooting the failed SSIS packages or not performing packages.
Works on Performance tuning and query optimization.
Responsible for testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting the technical problems.
Environment: Visual Studio 2015, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, C#, ASP.NET Core, MVC, SQL Server 2014/2016, XML, Web API 2.0, SSIS, SSRS, Entity Framework, LINQ, Angular 2/Angular 4, TypeScript, Azure, Xamarin Forms, Crystal Reports, Oracle PL/SQL, IIS, TFS   
Grainger, Chicago, IL
Jan 2016 – July 2016
Role: Sr.Net Developer
Responsibilities:
Followed Agile and Scrum Methodology and to produce high Quality software. 
Designed and implemented application using C#, ASP.NET MVC 5.0 with Razor View Engine, HTML, CSS and Utilized Entity Framework Database First approach.
Developed web pages and validated these pages using ASP.NET Core and C#.
Developed multilayered architecture application with User Interface, Service layer, Business and Data Access layers using ASP.NET, Web API and Entity Framework.
Designed presentation layer for dynamic web forms using ASP.Net MVC 5.0 Framework, JSON, and Visual Studio 2015.
Analyzed the codes for any bugs, troubleshooting issues, application support functions, deploying the codes on test servers, testing for any issues and then support the live deployment.
Design and develop across different architectural layers, i.e. database, application server, workflow, messaging and event management, and user interface.
Managed the source code of (Order Management System (OMS) and .net Financial) projects using TFS and manages all Release management process of all interim release of Production fixes and Planned Quarterly Releases.
Used ASP.NET Core MVC framework to support the use of Dependency Injection to inject objects into a class, instead of relying on the class to create the object itself. 
Used WCF Services for communicating with other application and components using C# code. 
Worked with ASP.NET Master Pages that were common throughout the application and content pages.
Integrated website with single sign-on system used in corporate network.
Involved in deploying the application on the IIS server.
Worked with MVC architecture application using ASPX view engine and web API
Involved in development and finalization of initial design of the application and worked with content managers and designers to resolve the issues.
Created and maintained database objects like complex Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Tables, Views and SQL Joins using SQL Server.
Involved in troubleshooting and bug fixing in development environment.
Used Team Foundation Server for Source Code Control, project related document sharing and team collaboration.
System test planning and Unit testing using the Microsoft Unit testing.
Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Visual Studio 2015, .NET Framework 4.5,  C#, ASP.NET, MVC 5.0, Entity Framework, WCF, Web API, IIS, SQL Server, TFS
West Corporation, Omaha, Nebraska
Aug 2015 – Dec 2015
Role: .NET Developer
Responsibilities:
Interaction with business analyst and subject matter experts to develop and document technical specifications.  
Participated in Daily Status and Weekly Status meetings with the functional team and developed interfaces based on the specifications.
Developed web application using ASP.Net MVC 4.0, C#. 
Developed responsive UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.
Developed the web pages in ASP.NET using .NET framework in C#.NET and application programming interface
Developed ASP.NET pages using ASP.NET Web form controls, User controls, Custom controls, HTML server controls in C#.
Used JavaScript for custom client-side validation.
Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA), which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.
Exposed WCF services to integrate with our own database.
Developed the database interactions using Entity Framework for manipulating, retrieving, storing and displaying data from SQL Server 2012 for the maintenance of the inventory.
Writing Queries using T-SQL Statements, views, user defined functions, stored procedures for inserting/Updating/Deleting the data into the relational tables.
Involved in programming model of WCF (Windows Communication Foundation) and creating business rules using WF (Windows Work Flow).
Implemented Forms Authentication and Windows authentication based on user's requirements.
Used LINQ (Language Integrated Query) for querying capabilities in .Net.  
Developed the application using MVC, implemented model first entity framework.
Created (BLL) Business Logic Layer and Presentation layer in ASP.NET.
Developed ASP pages to communicate with COM+ components as middle tier and MS SQL Server as database tier.
Created Common DATA Access Layer (DAL) Using ADO.NET, LINQ, SQL Server, Entity Framework. 
Developed RESTFUL Web services, APIs, and other back end components.
Used SOAP over HTTP to Implement Web Services and Consumed and published XML web services in the application.
Created Web services as the bridge between user interface layer and Business service layer to provide service-oriented architecture (SOA). 
Create Cache Memory on Windows Azure to improve the performance of data transfer between SQL Azure and WCF services
Perform automated tests, unit tests (NUNIT) and customized load testing for the overall system and the custom API
Identifying and deleting the unused Azure worker roles. 
Created automated Test scripts using automated tools and ran the test scripts on various Builds and instances.
Implemented MS-Unit Testing, Integration Testing for the testing the Interfaces. 
Extensively used Team Foundation Server for all the code check-ins, checkouts, maintaining builds and external libraries.
Environment: HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, IIS, Visual Studio, .NET Framework 4.5, ASP.NET, C#, ADO.Net, Angular JS, MVC, Entity Framework, LINQ, WCF, Team Foundation Server, SQL Server, JQuery, Azure, Web API, T-SQL, SOAP, TFS, NUnit
RVOS Insurance, Temple, TX 
Feb 14 – July 15
Role: .NET Developer
Responsibilities:
Involved in all phases of SDLC which involves Project Planning, Analysis, Design, Documentation, Development, implementation and support of software applications based on N-tier architecture.
Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.
Worked on C# for writing classes and developing the web parts by using visual studio.
Developed user interface using ASP.NET, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS and HTML. 
Used.NET AJAX controls to dynamically render the content on web pages developed using C#.
Worked on generating the middle tier components using VB.Net, .Net framework. 
Developed and Implemented Win Forms, Web Forms using ASP.NET and coded the Business logic in C#.
Implemented database design and developed SQL CRUD stored procedures for the application in SQL Server 2008.
Created Client side validations with JavaScript and Server side validations with ASP.Net 3.5. 
Created web pages to view the daily/weekly schedules using MVC4, JavaScript, Knockout JS, Oracle and Entity Framework.
Coded PL/SQL stored procedures, functions for the improved performance.
Created User Controls, Data Access Layer, and Business Logic Layer Classes using C #and ASP.Net 3.5 for web pages
Extensively used MVC 4 architecture for the Web application design to have the application layers loosely coupled
Involved in designing and development of SOAP based services using Web Services/WCF
Extensive Use of Session Management, View state and Cookie’s to maintain state in the applications. 
Developed several web pages set up content using MVC 4, AJAX, JQuery, C#, Oracle, JavaScript and MSMQ.
Created Stored Procedures to perform automated rules, updating to related tables using SQL Server.
Created several user controls (.asmx) and custom controls (DLL’s).
Implemented Web Services for publishing and consuming data successfully. 
Used GridView and ListView various other controls for displaying data.
Extensively used XML, XSLT and XSD for data transfer across different systems. 
Performed N-Unit testing and used SVN for source and version control.
Responsible for testing, fixing the bugs and troubleshooting the technical problems.
Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing
Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML, XSLT, XSD, Visual Studio, .NET Framework 4, ASP.NET, C#, VB.Net, ASP.NET MVC 4.0, Knockout JS, SQL Server, WCF, T-SQL, Web Services, Oracle, SVN, nUnit
Buxton Software Services – Hyderabad, India 
June 2012 – Dec 2013
Role: .NET Developer
Responsibilities:
Interacted with Client to gather requirements and document all the requirements. 
Involved in the Analysis, Design and Development of the enhancement system. 
Designed User Interface with HTML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS). 
Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C#.NET, ADO.NET and SQL.
Extensively used Master Pages, Web User and Custom Controls in developing the front end application.
Implemented Object oriented concepts effectively like inheritance, overloading, and abstract class. 
Developed JavaScript files for client-side validations. 
Created (BLL) Business Logic Layer and Presentation layer in ASP.NET. 
Contributed significantly to design of the object model in the middle tier. 
Created Common DATA Access Layer (DAL) Using ADO.NET. 
Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.
Intensively working with Expression Graphic 3.0 for graphic design, Expression Blend 3.0 for Silverlight and WPF Developing and Visual Studio 2008 for Silverlight backend programming in C# for dynamically generating components in front Silverlight.
Analyzed and designed new WPF application using MVVM and Repository pattern, from design to completion.
Used AJAX Library to make client side web service calls and partial post backs.
Involved in Database Design using SQL Server and creating Packages and Stored Procedures. 
Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.
Held requirements review to get feedback on the requirements and committed on final requirements.
Tracked bugs on a release basis and fixed and reported them on time.
Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XML, XAML, Visual Studio 2010, .NET Framework, ASP.NET, C#, ADO.Net,  SQL Server, WPF, JSON, MVVM, Microsoft Expression Blend.