Frank L. Mason
Phone : (949) 243-1501
E-mail : flmason@earthlink.net
Objective: Commercial or in-house Software Development, Level 3/2 Support. Source Code level development, diagnosis and remediation roles. Opportunities to expand my platform set welcomed.
Technical Summary
Experienced in commercial and in-house software development, diagnosis, correction, remediation, upgrades and support gained in various Software Vendor, Global Delivery Facility, and Data Center roles. 
Particularly strong in development and diagnosis on IBM 360/370/390/zSeries Architecture based systems (MVS and VM OS's) written in Assembler, PL/X, C/C++, REXX, CLIST, JCL and other common mainframe languages gained through Development and Level 2 roles. Additionally, some experience with HP-3000,  MS-DOS, Windows and UNIX/LINUX based systems.  
Additionally, Research and Planning skills were developed in the position of Coordinator of Research, Planning and Technology Review for Palm Beach County Government. 
Have developed, diagnosed, supported or used systems using the following:
Hardware : CPU Families - S/370/390/zSeries, HP 3000, x86, Cray XMP. Storage and Perhipherals - IBM 3800-3, IBM Band Printers, Komstar Microfiche, STC Laser Printers, Versatec Plotters, Wallace roll feed and automated report burster devices, Point of Sale (POS)  systems,  DASD devices supported included post 3390 devices such as Shark and Enterprise Storage Servers (ESS 2105-800, ESS 8000, DS8000 and similar). Tape Subsystem support included Automated Tape Libraries (ATL), floor drives and Virtual Tape Systems (VTS). (E.g. 3494, etc.) 
Operating Systems : Mainframe - MVS XA, OS/390, z/OS, Unix System Services (USS),VM,  z/VM. Midrange - MPE, OS/400, Windows 3.11, PC - Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows Vista, Windows 7.0, Linux (RHEL), OS/2,  DOS, CP/M. Other (Cray) - Unix.

Telecommunications: TCP/IP, VTAM
Languages: Assembler Language (BAL and Advanced Interfaces for Mainframe - 360/370/390/zSeries, MVS, VM), C/C++, COBOL II / OS/VS COBOL, Easytrieve, Focus, FORTRAN, GML, HTML, ISPF, MVS JCL (JES2/JES3) and utilities,  OGL/370, PL/I, PL/X, PPFA/370, REXX (TSO, VM, OS/2, SOCKETS API, Catalog Search Interface, USS API, et. al.), SAS, SAS C/C++, SQL (embedded for DB2 on z/OS), TELAGRAF, TSO/CLIST, Visual Basic For Applications (VBA in Word 6.0), XEDIT, HTML, CSS, CSI, SSI, Java, Javascript, php and SQL
Software :
Commercial Development / Level 3 : Vanguard SecurityCenter, Vanguard Administrator
Level 2 : IBM AFP/PSF/Infoprint Server Suite of Products with specialization in the InfoPrint Server product group - including but not limited to, OGL, PMF, PPFA, PSF  including Download and Download Plus, Printway, Netspool, Print Interface, and Transforms. IBM Storage Products - VSAM, VSAM RLS (Record Level Sharing – SMSVSAM)
Diagnosis Tools: Console DUMP, GTF, IBM's RETAIN IBM's SPA/VPLOCO Source Code Facilities, IPCS, Product Traces, Packet Traces, SLIP, SVC DUMP, Colesoft X/DC
Databases: DB2 for z/OS (Embedded SQL, CAF and IFI interfaces)
Security: RACF at ICHEINTY level, SAF at RACROUTE and SVC 0A82-0A85 Level
In-House Development :  Pratt & Whitney Aircraft (GESP) - Program Maintenance Request (PMR), CLPUT/CLGET, , HSMPAN, Assorted VM Utilities for Engineering Data Processing. GTE - Service Order System (SORCES), Citicorp - CICS Six Sigma Reporting, Info/Man Daily Reporting Application.  IBM - Netspool VTAM IVP, Diagnostic LPQ et. al., SYSVARS System Info Application, Pre and Post z/Os Upgrade Checkout tools. 
Support/Administration/Local Development: CA-1, CA-7, CA-Dispatch, CA-EARL, CAEDS, CA-JCL Check, CAMGR, CA-PDSMAN, CATIA, DFSMSdfp suite (DFSMSdfp, DFSMSdss, DFSMShsm, DFSMSrmm DFSMS OAM), Distributed Console Access Facility (DCAF), Falcon 11.0 , File-Aid, IBM MVS and VM Compilers and Link Editor, IBM DFSMSdfp suite (DFSMSdfp, DFSMSdss, DFSMShsm, DFSMSrmm DFSMS OAM), IGES, IMSL, INFO/MAN, Infoprint Server Product Group (Netspool, Printway, Print Interface, Transforms), INFOREX, IPCS, ISDF, ISMF, JES328X, JHS/XPTR, KEYMASTER, KwikKey, MacKinney JQP, OGL/370 (Overlay Generation Language), OMEGAMON, OPC/ESA  (aka Tivoli Workload Scheduler (TWS)), PANVALET, PDSAA, RACF, SAR, SAS, SCLM, TCPaccess 4.1, TELAGRAF, TLMS, TMON/MVS and TMON Report Writer (The Monitor for MVS), TSO, VPS, IBM HTTP Server Powered by Apache
Usage : Chrome, Internet Explorer, Groupwise, MS-Office (Excel, Word), MS-PowerPoint, MS-Project, , MS-Works, Netscape/Firefox,  Novell Netware, Manager/2, Quattro-Pro, WordPerfect
Ticketing Systems Familiarity: Heat, InfoMan, Impact, Maximo, ManageNow, Remedy, Peregrine, TSRM, ServiceNow.
Professional Experience
Mainframe Print Software Support                                                         Dates : 11/2011 – Present
Artech Information Systems at IBM (Contract, 100% Telecommute)
Provide mainframe print and print subsystem support for IBM internal systems (IGA) and several  IBM's commercial clients, during transition to Global Services IT Support and Business as Usual (BAU) support thereafter. 
Act as primary customer facing support providing Problem Determination, Service Restoration, Upgrade, Migration, System Merge, and Customization and Administration support for 70 IBM
Internal Global Account (IGA) LPARs, and Honda account. 
Act as Secondary/Backup on State Street Bank accounts. Pearson Publishing. 

Serve as tertiary/consultant and page out on AFS, AMEX, Aranda, BNSF, Caterpillar, Equifax, GE, Hartford, Kodak, Merck, Morgan-Stanley, Neovia, NiSource, NY DMV, NY MTA, and others as needed.
Provided training to other team members on various accounts as needed.
Assist other team members with coding, exits, debugging and Knowledge Transfer (KT) activities.
Mainframe representative to the Global Enterprise Cloud Print Team for Cloud Print Strategy Initiative to transform of IBM IGA internal systems to a cloud based architecture. As part of this project, diagnosed IBM's in house Distributed Document Print Facility application and related system exits to function in the new architecture. JES2 and PSF exists were diagnosed. PSF exit logic was recoded to function under Infoprint Server. These exits provided feedback to DDPF and/or executed console commands on behalf of DDPF based on print job status.
Provide Mainframe Print Team support and representation on approximately 20 z/OS Upgrades per year.

Products include Infoprint Server and Transforms, PSF, PPFA, OGL, VPS, JES328X and MacKinney JQP. 

Customized IBM HTTP Server Powered by Apache for used with Infoprint Central including setup and testing of SSL/TLS support using digital certificates generated with gskkyman.

Wrote C.R.U.D. (Create, Read, Update, Delete) backend in COBOL/CICS/DB2 running on z/OS, hosted on IBM’s SHARE LPAR, providing a backend application for demonstration of z/OS Connector as an implementation of HTTP RESTful services backed by mainframe legacy code, on behalf of the CTO of Mainframe Modernization. This code was also  used as a backend for courses in distributed programming as part of IBM’s collaboration with Marist College. 

Wrote concept test Python programs that used Spark/PySpark.

Have written add hoc software tools in REXX, C/C++, BAL, interfacing with z/OS, VTAM, and USS as needed. Some examples:
VTAMTEST - A reentrant zSeries Assembler program, written using self written structuring, register management, and work area macros, to drive Netspool via VTAM for end to end testing of Infoprint Server. 
HEXDUMP - A C/C++ hexdump program. 
SYSVARS - A REXX routines to return System Info (OS Levels, JES Level, LPAR IDs etc.) and CVT,   ECVT,  and IHAIPA control block information (i.e. the D IPLINFO info) to assess newly onboarded systems more rapidly when TASID or other tools were not readily available. (SYSVARS)
USSTEST1-4 - A series of USS REXX based routines to return UID, GID, GROUP and file system information to diagnose USS problems with Infoprint server during upgrades and steady state. These are particularly useful where RACF authority to list OMVS segments and group membership are not present. 
Wrote a series of diagnostic programs using REXX and the REXX SOCKETS API to support analyzing network print issues
SOCKET7 -  A diagnostic LPQ for mainframe command based on RFC1179 using REXX SOCKETS. Primarily to provide the ability to query queues of remote print servers while exposing TCP/IP errors. This had several benefits:
1) Remote Queue Query - The IBM provided mainframe commad lpstat only queries the local Infoprint Server queues. lpq is not provided. In many environments the ability to query remote queues is useful.
2) Expose TCP/IP Return Codes - In this diagnostic version all socket call returns are exposed. Often a "print" issue is actually a network issue.
3) Ability to Work Through Firewall - Many distributed lpq commands do provide remote query, but their workstation IP address is often blocked. Being able to run on the sending mainframe solves this issue.
RECVJOB - A diagnostic LPR for mainframe based on RFC1179 using REXX SOCKETS that exposes all TCP/IP and RFC1179 return codes and ACK/NACKs Used similarly to SOCKET7 above, but goes through the full RFC1179 process to send a data file and control file.
LSTN9100 -  A diagnostic Port 9100 listener / server that accepts a direct sockets connection over TCP/IP and echos the incoming data to sysout for analysis
DSOCKET - A direct sockets client used to connect to direct sockets servers or printers and sends a data steam for diagnostic purposes.
LISTLIB2-3 - REXX based programs to retrieve AFP Library info from old and new VOLSERs and Catalog to support z/OS migrations and ensure that in house resources were not lost when the standard IBM provided libraries were rolled in.
Collaborated with Toronto Open Source Development team members on port of Google v8 Javascript engine and node.js to Unix System Services under z/OS Environment as a stretch role.
Wrote simple test web applications (e.g. Hello World and CRUD) using Linux-Apache-Tomcat-MySQL-php stack (LAMP) with HTML, CSS, CSI, SSI, Java, Javascript, php and SQL. 
Added Websphere Application Server (WAS) and DB2 under RHEL 7.7 to above stack.
Mainframe Storage Support - Jazz                                                          Dates : 11/2010 – 04/2011
IBM - Dubuque GDF (direct)
Responsible for Mainframe Storage management of approximately 30 IBM Global Delivery Facility (GDF) clients.
This included disk and tape using tools including IBM DFSMSdfp suite (DFSMSdfp, DFSMSdss, DFSMShsm, DFSMSrmm DFSMS OAM), ISMF, and third party products including Tape Management Systems (TMS), CA-1 and TLMS. And, occasionally scheduling software such as Tivoli Workload Scheduler (TWS aka OPC), and CA-7 and others.
Executed Requests for Service (RFS) that involved complex requirements as required by the client support/marketing teams.
Collaborated with other GDF Mainframe teams as needed. (E.g. MVS Support, DB2 Support, etc.)
Participated in Disaster Recovery Exercises (DRE) as a Mainframe Storage Representative (technical) for IBM both at IBM Business Continuity Centers (e.g. Sterling Forest) and remotely. 
DASD devices supported included post 3390 devices such as Shark and Enterprise Storage Servers (ESS 2105-800, ESS 8000, DS8000 and similar).
Tape Subsystem support included Automated Tape Libraries (ATL), floor drives and Virtual Tape Systems (VTS). (E.g. 3494, etc.) 
Provided source code development and maintenance support for storage related code written in the typical group of traditional mainframe languages (E.g. REXX, JCL. Assembler, and third party tools such as CA-EARL.)
Tracked Problem, Incident and Change tickets for storage systems support work using in house ticketing system Maximo as well as client systems using ManageNow, Remedy, Peregrine, InfoMan, and Impact. 
Participated in twice daily cadence meetings to discuss issues, challenges, performance trends and exchange status and trouble-shooting information from other team members. 
Assisted junior members with mainframe topics as needed (i.e. Rhythm and Blues levels).
Software Developer - Commercial Products                                         Dates : 07/2006 – 10/2007
Vanguard Integrity Professionals (Vanguard Research Division, Orange Ca.) (Direct)
Implemented enhancements and fixes in the SecurityCenter product in z/OS assembler, SAS C/C++ and SQL on IBM's DB2. Worked on other Vanguard products as commonality goals dictated (Primarily Vanguard Administrator).
Customer problems were handled in a level 3, customer facing fashion as required. 
Build environment was SCLM with Vanguard specific customizations.

Diagnostic tooling used spanned the usual MVS Diagnosis: Tools and Service Aids set (SLIP, DUMP, GTF) along withCole Software XDC.

Advanced interfaces to  MVS, RACF, and DB2 were worked with. (E.g. Dataspaces, RACF Macro Interfaces, DB2 IFI and CAF interfaces.) Also notable was the use of a Vanguard modified SAS/C environment. 
Authored approximately 10-12 PTF's, ported and implemented the Vanguard Hard Revoke feature into SecurityCenter from Vanguard Administrator and engaged in significant R & D on the DB2 parts of the product.
Some specifics were:

Prototyped DB2 Half of SecurityCenter Product - Two versions, C/C++ and BAL.
Hard Revoke Feature - Ported From Administrator (COBOL Subroutines called from BAL).
Implemented C/C++ calls to BAL - To encapsulate traditions MVS Macro functions like ASCRE.
ABEND0C4 fix in TCP/IP routine - Corrected uninitialized pointer in C/C++.
Double Display of Last Line Fix - Took removal of one comment of a LOC to fix, but days to find.
New Password Rules - Updated Vanguard products match the IBM spec.
New History Checking Logic - Products were reporting a given pword was used in the last 8... it was decided this was giving away info, messages were "sterilized".
Software Development - Tivoli Information Management                  Dates : 04/2006 – 06/2006
Omnisoft to ITC at DHL, Phoenix, AZ (Contract)
Modified the client’s Infoman system and batch back end to accommodate a new model of scanner device.
Level 2 Support Analyst – VSAM RLS                                                    Dates : 08/2004 - 06/2005
CTG at IBM DFSMS Level 2 Support, Tucson, AZ (Contract)
Provided Level 2 Support of IBM's VSAM RLS (Record Level Sharing – SMSVSAM) product.
Level 2 Support Analyst - AFP/PSF products                                        Dates : 03/2000 – 05/2004
CTG at IBM Printing Systems Division, Boulder, CO (Contract)
Position : 
Provided customer facing Level 2 Support of IBM's AFP/PSF suite with specialization in the InfoPrint Server product group (Printway, Netspool, Print Interface, and Transforms). Primary focus was on problem determination/resolution via both live and electronic means.
Supported products in the product group include: InfoPrint Server, Printway, Netspool, PSF, Print Interface, OGL, PPFA, and PMF. 
The OS/390 and z/OS platforms with Unix System Services were supported.
Problem Diagnosis and Resolution tools included IPCS (dumps, traces, GTF traces), IBM's RETAIN facility, Runtime Listings and other documentation requested from or submitted by clients, IBM Source Code (PLX, Assembler Language, C++) and internal documentation. 
Solutions provided ranged from explanations of correct usage (Q & A or "How To" support) to the creation of APARs and distribution of  PTF's.  As required, Development was engaged for assistance with code defect issues.
Member of the PSD Autonomic Computing Team.
Performed off shift Duty Manager role resolving of high impact customer issues within my specialties or coordinating with other groups as required. Where necessary, escalation was performed.
Y2K Consultant                                                                                                 Dates : 05/99 - 07/99
Critical Skill at Conseco Insurance, Indianapolis, IN (Contract)
During contract assignment performed a) Y2K test script creation and execution according to company guidelines, including coding of test cases; b) porting to test LPARS where required; c) problem correction including vendor coordination; d) final documentation and e) required project tracking. Handled the following systems products :
1. TCPaccess 4.1 (Sterling/Interlink's TCP/IP suite)
2. OGL/370 (Overlay Generation Language)
3. TMON/MVS and TMON Report Writer (The Monitor for MVS)
4. KwikKey (A fast VSAM alternate index build utility). 
5. Falcon 11.0 (A data entry product)
Y2K Consultant                                                                                                 Dates : 03/99 - 04/99
Company : Alltech Systems Inc. at FedEx, Memphis, TN (Contract)
During this contract assignment I performed a) Y2K test script execution, including coding of test cases;  b) problem correction including vendor coordination; c) final documentation and d) required project tracking. Handled the following systems products :
1. File-Aid
2. CA-PDSMAN
3. PPFA/370
4. OGL/370
5. JHS/XPTR (Similar to CA-View and CA-Dispatch)
Process Specialist III - Batch Production Control                                          Dates : 03/98 - 12/98
Company : CitiBank Division of CitiGroup, The Lakes, NV. (Direct)
Performed batch production support of CitiBank's batch credit card posting systems for all major Bank Card Brands (E.g Visa MasterCard, Diners Club). 
Wrote two applications for management reporting requirements :
1. CICS Six Sigma Reporting - An application to calculate and report error rates for the company's production CICS regions. Written using: 
A. JCL
B. Batch TSO
C. REXX
D. SAR
2. Info/Man Daily Reporting Application - An application to download selected Info/Man data on demand to a PC/LAN (NT Based) and format it as an MS Office document. Written using :
A. ISPF
B. JCL
C. INFO/MAN
D. Batch Info/Man
E. Info/Man RFT product
F. REXX
G. TCP/IP (FTP)
H. Visual Basic For Applications (VBA in Word 6.0, for final report formatting.)
	Engaged in Six Sigma training.  
Software Development and Support Consultant                                                Dates : 6/97 - 9/97
Company : DMR/Trecom at GTE, Tampa, FL. (Contract)
Performed production support of  GTE's Service Order System (SORCES) implemented in COBOL/CICS/VSAM at source code level.
Additionally, JCL maintenance and cloning REXX code was developed to assist building a new test system. 
Sr. Coordinator, Planning, Research, and Technology Review                      Dates : 11/96 - 04/97
Palm Beach County ISS (Palm Beach Board of Commissioners) (Direct)
Responsibilities in this position were twofold.  First, I was responsible for researching Information Technology (IT) issues as required by Executive management and Operational Groups.  Second, I was responsible for coordinating solutions with Management, External Contractors and Internal Groups. 
 Projects Researched and Coordinated included :
1. Year 2000 Compliance - In this project I performed or participated in the following :
A. Researching issues, methodologies, and tools for Year 2000 Compliance
B. Updating Service Level Agreements to Include Year 2000 Compliance
C. Analyzing Year 2000 Service Provider advertising and unsolicited proposals
D. Drafting of Request For Proposal (RFP) for Year 2000 Services
E. Developed RFP process and rating method for team rating of Proposals and implemented as network Quattro Pro spreadsheets.
F. Analyzed Year 2000 Service Provider Proposals submitted in response to RFP
G. Provided input to Year 2000 Proposal team on proposals
2. Distributed Job Scheduling - In this project I performed or participated in the following :
A. Researched state of the art using a) Gartner Group Materials, b) IDCG materials, c) Software Vendor materials, d) SEC EDGAR Database
B. Provided technical input based on my term as a Mainframe Production Coordinator at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft.
C. Interviewed Scheduler Vendors with Distributed Scheduling Team
3. County Wide Interoperabilty Standards - In this project I performed or participated in the following :
A. Researched Standards on the Federal and State levels
B. Researched Methods of conducting Committee affairs (Robert's Rules of Order, Parliamentary Procedure, IEEE Standards Process, etc.)
C. Constructed outlines of "Buy In" speeches for Sr. management for Configuration Standards and Interoperability Committee
D. Constructed Presentation Materials for (C)
Research tools and services employed included  a) Gartner Group, b) IDCG, c) BRINT, d) Internet and WWW via Netscape and various browsers e) Vendor submitted materials. Additionally, some legal research on the structure of Local Government and the budget cycle was performed. Some contract issues were coordinated with the County Contracts department during the drafting of the RFP for Year 2000 Services. 
Help Desk  Analyst                                                                                                Dates : 8/96 - 9/96
Office Depot  Inc. Corporate Headquarters (Contract)
Executed basic help desk procedures for Point of Sale (POS)  system support and related MVS or AS/400 systems.
The POS systems were OS/2 based LANs (Token rings or Ethernet) in each retail outlet which controlled cash registers, credit card readers and bar code readers while also generating management reports.  These were networked to AS/400  midrange or MVS mainframe systems.  
Help Desk access to POS systems on MVS mainframe was enhanced via Distributed Console Access Facility (DCAF) allowing help desk personnel take console control of systems in the field. 
Help Desk local processing was facilitated via an OS/2 LAN using IBM OS/2 LAN Server. The Help Desk LAN was networked to available mainframes and AS/400s via OS/2 Communications Manager/2. 
This was a short term, business cycle related assignment (6 weeks).
During this time I submitted one process improvement for printer font servicing to Management. 
MVS System Programmer, JES2 and Program Products                             Dates : 01/93 - 05/94
Pratt & Whitney Aircraft  - Gov't Engines and Space Propulsion (GESP), Jupiter, Fl. 
(Direct, Secret Clearance)
While at GESP I held four progressively more responsible positions, the last of these being MVS Systems Programmer - JES2, with additional program products.
While in this role it was my responsibility to install and support JES2, TSO, AFP Products, MVS Compilers, OPC/ESA, TLMS, CA-Dispatch, CA-JCL Check and other assorted CA products used by Production Control.
During this time the primary focus was on commonality between the East Hartford and Florida operations, process improvements  and resolution of outstanding technical problems.
Aside from the commonality effort I implemented Wallace roll feed and automated report burster devices. On the software level this involved the suppression of system separator pages when applications produced an equivalent while generating bar code on application (e.g. CA-Dispatch) generated separators. This required modification of several JES2 and a CA-Dispatch exits and the creation of new separator page PAGEDEF / FORMDEFs for the various laser printers in use. By placing bar code on all relevant separator pages the efficiency of SYSOUT handling in Operations was improved by replacing manual bundle bursting with automated bursting.
An interesting problem resolution during this time was cleanup of system level S913 ABENDs caused by extraneous I/O appendages specified to the system that were no longer in the OS runtime libraries but specified in the appendage list.   This was done by  visually inspecting load module form macros in the OS  libraries and resolving discrepancies between PARMLIB and the OS libraries.  This was probably the first practical use of my interest in internals and machine level code diagnosis.
Software Developer, System Programmer (MVS, VM Applications)           Dates : 11/91 - 01/93                                             
Pratt & Whitney Aircraft  - Gov't Engines and Space Propulsion (GESP), Jupiter, Fl.
(Direct, Secret Clearance)
Responsible for the problem resolution, maintenance, and upgrading of many in-house and vendor software products used in the support of the Engineering Production Programming requirements on MVS and VM platforms along with some links to a Cray  XM-P/Unix platform.
Vendor Software products included CATIA, CAEDS, IGES,  PANVALET, VM Compilers and IMSL.
The following are descriptions of the main in-house written systems  supported :
Program Maintenance Request (PMR) - A multi platform (MVS/VM/Cray UNIX) change management system used to transition Engineering Test Files and programs to production libraries in both classified and unclassified environments. I  was given ownership of this legacy system and resolved many problem areas and created technical documentation which, at that time, was non existent and/or out of date.  
PMR was implemented in distributed fashion with sections positioned among 3 VM service machines, 2 MVS systems, and one Cray XM-P  with customer interface coding on mini disks on VM.  This system was mission critical to most engineering groups at Pratt & Whitney, Florida. While supporting this system and coding assembler routines to transfer data and meet security standards I detected errors in the IBM written VM OS Simulation PDS routines. As a direct result IBM issued a corrective APAR for VM PDS directories.
CLPUT/CLGET - The Security Group approved method of file transfer to and from classified environments. It consisted of 4 VM service machines with interfaces to MVS environments where required. It was implemented in distributed fashion being a server to both customer interfaces and PMR mentioned above and a client to MVS.  
HSMPAN - A VM service machine and MVS batch based application used to transfer PANVALET library files to HSM tape backup at customer request from the VM/CMS command line to free online DASD space.  
It was implemented on a distributed model on VM treating both online customers and PMR as its clients and the MVS Batch environment as its server with provisions to manage and report on MVS batch job progress. 
While in this position approximately 300 problems were tracked and resolved, a portion of which were related to the installation of a new version of the VM operating system.
Authored a 370 assembler program to copy classified MVS Partitioned Data Sets to VM OS Simulation Partitioned Data sets at the block level on a daily basis (via a VM service machine and shared DASD) between the MVS and VM OS images. 
Several motivations for this existed. First, data formerly created on VM was being created to MVS PDS's with a new engineering data collector system. Second, was compliance with B1 Security regulations. Lastly, the original plan called for recompiling the VM source for the in house data post processing under MVS.  However, the source code was missing. 
The subsequent solution called for a block level copy of data since VM OS Simulation PDS's have a fundamentally different internal file structure as compared to true MVS PDS's. Available copy utilities failed to reblock the MVS data as needed for the VM load modules. This program resulted in saving the resources required to recreate a large,  heavily used system by triggering cross platform file copies on a timed basis.  (This also led to APAR VM54976 from IBM.)
Batch Production Control Analyst                                                                   Dates : 07/85 - 11/91
Pratt & Whitney Aircraft  - Gov't Engines and Space Propulsion (GESP), Jupiter, Fl.
(Direct, Secret Clearance)  
Responsible for daily completion of Batch Production Job Streams. This included correcting abnormal end conditions and coordinating with appropriate programming groups and Computer Operations as required.
While serving in the role of Production Coordinator the following were also achieved :
Participated in Overnight Production ABEND Reduction Effort.  Designed and implemented data recording and reporting methods using CLIST, INFO/MAN,  370 Assembler Language, MVS JCL,  SAS and TELAGRAF.  As a team ABENDs were reduced approximately 50% during my time as a team member.   
Coordinated with the Automated Operations group to design and implement a useful Real Time ABEND Monitor based on Ops Automation under Netview.
Researched the applicability of MVS HiperBatch to Production Processing.  Research yielded applicability. However other priorities prevented Tech Support from bringing various system components up to required levels.
Developed and implemented "Data Center Alert" system.  An online/batch system to be used by programmers to inform Data Center of possible impacts of their projects on system requirements.  It was implemented in ISPF, CLIST, AFP and MVS JCL.
Researched the STOP X-37 ABEND reduction product and determined it was not useful at that time as it was incompatible with the then new SMS storage management system.
Developed the "Production Control Significant Events Log"  online turnover system which allowed Production Control and application programmers to communicate significant events across shift and departmental boundaries while providing an audit trail of special requests. 
Participated in conversion of the production schedule system (approx. 10,000 MVS Jobs and related input processing) from CAMGR to OPC/ESA. During this conversion I developed several programs and exit modifications to facilitate seamless customer support during and after the conversion.  This included programs and JCL to integrate KEYMASTER keyed data and job control dependencies into the OPC/ESA system with minimal customer impact.  
Participated in conversion from the INFOREX input system to the KEYMASTER input system.  During this conversion I developed a 370 Assembler subroutine to be called from the central data input COBOL program that allowed the program to utilize any practical customer record length (DCBX).  It was modeled on IEBGENER, by copying DCB parms from the input DCB to the output DCB. This alleviated the need to have copies of the COBOL program for each record length to be processed.  Prior to this Production Control only allowed 80 and 131 character record lengths for customers utilizing Production Scheduling.
Developed several 370 Assembler programs that detected various types of empty data sets and issue condition codes or ABENDs. This allowed JCL step level determination of data availability saving effort required to redesign and recode many large COBOL accounting systems suffering S001 abends in such cases. The programs that issued condition codes allowed job step level logic to be implemented. Programs that issued ABENDs allowed Scheduler level logic to be employed. This resulted in reduced manual effort on the part of programmers and JCL analysts to complete job strings achieving smoother job flow  and  reduced support effort and cost.
Engaged in Six Sigma training.
Peripheral Operator : Mainframe Operations                                               Dates : 01/84 - 07/85
Pratt & Whitney Aircraft  - Gov't Engines and Space Propulsion (GESP), Jupiter, Fl.
(Direct, Secret Clearance)  
Responsible for operation and maintenance of IBM , Kodak, and Versatec printing subsystems hardware. This included 3800 subsystems, band printers and KomStars. During this time I submitted two cost reduction proposals for programming standards changes which were accepted and verifiably reduced printing costs. 
Additional Experience
Sr. Technician - High Reliability Devices                                                             Dates : 1983-1984                                                                                 
Solitron Devices Inc.  (Direct)
Responsible for supervising the work flow though a 15-20 person high reliability device assembly department. Responsibility for adjustment and calibration of assembly machinery and preliminary quality inspection of parts produced by line technicians. Responsible for the training new technicians. 
Processes included : 
Ultrasonic Lead Bonding 
Gold/Silicon Eutectic Chip Bonding 
Sr. Technician - Encapsulation                                                                              Dates : 1982-1983
Company : Solitron Devices Inc. (Direct) 
Responsible for supervising work flow though a 5 person transistor encapsulation and vacuum bake department. Responsible for adjustment and calibration of assembly machinery and preliminary quality inspections of parts produced by line technicians. Responsible for training of new technicians.  
Processes included : 
Metallic encapsulation 
Polymer Injection Molded encapsulation 
Vacuum and Vibration testing of finished units 
Vacuum Baking of finished units 
Jr. Technician - Lapping and Polishing                                                                Dates : 1981-1982
Company : Solitron Devices Inc. (Direct) 
Responsible for machining and polishing of 2" and 3" silicon wafers. Responsible for maintenance of related machinery and solving production problems for more junior technicians. Responsibility for support of wafer mounting, polishing, cleaning and inspection personnel. Responsible for training of new technicians.  
Processes included : 
Blanchard Grinding 
Chemical/Mechanical Polishing (Tizon & Strasbaugh Equipment) 
Vapor/Ultrasonic Wafer Cleaning 
MISCELLANEOUS WORK HISTORY : 
Provided below is a list of other work experience stretching back to High School. Dates are approximate. 
2000 - 21 Dealer , Sahara Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas, NV.
1998 - Acquired a Florida Mortgage Broker's license, listed at Nexus Financial Services, WPB, Fl.
1996 - Started and closed a construction sub-contracting business with a partner to rehab foreclosed properties for local investors.
1994 - Car Sales, Stuart Pontiac, WPB Fl.
1988 - Stock Broker, Acquired Series 7/63 stock broker's licenses at Blinder and Robinson. Thereafter, worked for Allied Capital Group in Wellington Fl. for a short period in conjunction with continued work at Pratt & Whitney Data Center.
1983 : Bookkeeping, Davidson Accounting, PBG, Fl. 
1982 : Toll Collector, Florida State Turnpike, PBG, Fl.
1980 - 1981 : Stock Clerk, K-Mart, Tequesta, Fl.
1979 - 1980 : Cook, Pizza Inn, PBG, Fl.
1979 : Meat Cutter's Apprentice - Publix Supermarkets, PBG, Fl.
1979 - Construction Laborer - Palm Beach Heavy Construction, PBG, Fl.

1978 : Line Cook and Dishwasher, Ashley's Restaurant, PGB, Fl.
1978 : Stock Clerk, "Kiddie Toy Center"
Education
Stetson College of Law - J. D. option (Attended Fall 1995 term only.)
Bachelor's of  Applied Science - Computer Systems Option,  Florida Atlantic University (1992). 
A. A. Degree - Computer Science, Palm Beach Junior College (1984).