Brian Elum-Thomas
Title/Role:						DAS CSC: Service Desk 1
VectorVMS Requisition Number:	762417
Summary:
Experienced IT Support Specialist with over 11 years of providing excellent customer service and exceptional troubleshooting skills in the IT field.
Ability to provide technical support via email and phone with good communication skills and professional demeanor.
Excellent organizational skills, ability to prioritize multiple priorities, and strong attention to detail.
Provided technical support of business applications. Escalates to SME, and higher level support personnel.
Used multiple Ticketing Systems such as Remedy, ServiceDesk, ConnectWise, Service Now, Zendesk, and Sales Force.
Coached, mentored, and trained new representatives helping to build a top-quality call center.
Assisted 100-150 customers per day via phone, email, and fax resulting in steady workflow for technicians.
Assisted staff end users by trouble shooting technical issues and resolving Tier I, II, and III level tickets.
Technical Skills:
Microsoft Office: Versions: 2010, 2013, 2016, 2019.
Windows Server Administration: Versions: 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016.
Active Directory: Password Reset, Unlock Account, Application Installation.
Ticketing Systems: Remedy, ServiceDesk, ConnectWise, Service Now, Zendesk, Sales Force.
IP Phone Mac/iOS Technical Support: Troubleshooting, Assistance and Configuration.
Standard Applications: Microsoft Office Suite (Excel, Access, Outlook, PowerPoint), Troubleshooting Expertise.
Typing: Speed: 45 wpm+.
Education:
Associate of Science, Computer Information Systems
Prince George’s Community College, Largo, MD
Degree Awarded: Yes, Date: 2003
Employment History:
World Wide Tech Services (WWTS)
PC Technician (Projects as needed)	2024 - Present
Sets up and configures new computer and internet equipment.
Updating computer operating systems and other important software, as needed.
Substantiating requests for hardware and software purchases and upgrades, if appropriate.
Updates computer software and operating systems.
Federal Communications Commission
IT Support Technician II	2022 - 2024
Assisted 300+ end users by trouble shooting technical issues to resolve Tier I and II level tickets.
Provided troubleshooting and support for Windows and MAC devices.
Assisted the Help Desk Manager as the Team Lead supporting five members to ensure team success while resolving end user’s incidents/request.
Utilized ServiceNow ticketing system for tracking and resolving technical issues.
Active Directory – add/delete users, reset passwords, etc.
Assisted Hardware with deployment of laptops by imaging, application installations, updates, and domain setup.
Utilized remote access onto desktops and laptops to resolve complicated technical issues.
Provided an accurate record of each email/call in the incident management tracking tool.