
                               Abdifatah Ahmed
               11401 Catalina Terrace, Silver Spring, MD 20902
           Contact Number 240-432-4729 | abdifatahahmed5@gmail.com


EDUCATION & TRAINING
Towson University
Bachelor of Science: Information Systems

January 2013- Present
Minor: Business Administration


Year Up National Capital Region, a partner of Northern Virginia Community
College
Completed: January 2013
Enrolled in one-year career development institute that provides six months
of technical and professional training, a six-month corporate internship
and college credit
Completed courses include desktop support, IT helpdesk, computer
networking, business writing, professional skills, personal finance, and
customer service
Earning a Cisco IT Essentials certificate via Year Up, a Cisco Networking
Academy; coursework includes, advanced networking, repair, and
troubleshooting skills as well as critical thinking skills

Montgomery College
Associate of science (A.S): computer science

August 2009-Janurary 2012

CERTIFICATIONS
 • CompTIA Microsoft Office Specialist 2003
 • ITIL v3 Foundation Certificate (HCL Tech)
 • Cisco Networking Academy via Year-UP

TECHNICAL SKILLS
Operation Systems: MS Windows Vista, XP; MS Windows Server 2003, MS Windows
7, MS Windows 10, Apple OSX, iOS, BES 5,10


Software Applications: MS Office Suite 2000, 2003, & 2007&2016 (Access,
Excel, PowerPoint, Word);
Norton Ghost; installing drivers, Active Directory, Citrix Systems, McAfee
Agent Monitor, Mainframe Applications, Box cloud storage, Microsoft
OneDrive, Office 365, Avaya, Skype For Business, Office Communicator, Cisco
Jabber VoIP-Cisco, G-Suit, Remedy, Service Now Service Management,
Microsoft BitLocker Administration and Monitoring, Symantec Encryption
Management Server, IBM BigFix, Adobe Admin Console, MobileIron, Cylance
Project, Bomgar

Hardware: HP desktops & laptops; Dell desktops & laptops; HP printers;
general computer builds and repairs; hardware installations and swaps;
general networking experience (running cables, troubleshooting connections,
activating ports) iOS Devices (iPad Pro, iPhone, MacBook, iMac)









PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
XA Systems Location NIH - Bethesda, MD
Sr. Desktop Support Specialist
September 2017 to Present

    • Identify architectural requirements, analyze applications,
      programming, and operations; evaluate existing and proposed systems,
      recommending solutions to infrastructure.
    • Troubleshooting network connectivity in a LAN/WAN/VLAN environment
    • Ensure desktop computers interconnect seamlessly with diverse systems
      including associated vendor systems, file servers, email servers,
      application servers, and administrative systems
    • Establish and upgraded system by planning and implementing desktop
      rollout projects.
    • Installing hardware, and software maintaining installation records by
      documenting procedures used.
    • Develop trends by monitoring and analyzing incoming calls, problems
      and support requests.
    • Install, upgrade, support and troubleshoot for printers, computer
      hardware and any other authorized peripheral equipment
    • Evaluate new product versions and recommend upgrade schedules




World Bank Group, Washington, D.C.
HCL Technologies
Technical Support Specialist
July 2016 – September 2017
    • Escalation point for Tier 3 issues being escalated from Tier 1 & 2
      support staff globally.
    • Responsible for assisting local IT in country offices with SAP
      Applications and Access Management (Active Directory).
    • Responsible for escalating technical issues that could not be resolved
      to Field Engineering, Product Development and Software Development.
    • Escalation point for Telecom issues Avaya System, Cisco IP phones,
      Cisco Jabber
    • Ensure customer and partner inquiries are responded to within
      established timeframes and customer care and technical support service
      levels are achieved.
    • Remote desktop connectivity applications like SMS, Bomgar, WebEx, Live
      Meeting, and Windows Native tool, Citrix
    • Set up and monitor video conferences (troubleshooting of VTC)
    • Internet browsers (e.g. Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, Safari),
    • Clients: Windows 10, Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows XP, Windows
      2000
    • Servers: Windows 2000, Windows 2003, Windows 2008



Federal Deposit of Insurance Corporation
Computer Sciences Corporation
Insight Global
Helpdesk Analyst/Workflow Specialist
January 2013 – July 2016
    • Assist end-users and IT specialists by phone and email with first-
      level technical support; working to resolve as many incidents at the
      Tier I level.
    • Work with Tier II and other groups to resolve technical problems.
    • Create tickets, respond to tickets, and escalate tickets as necessary
      to the proper groups. Each ticket must have troubleshooting
      documentation that explains the problem, work done on the problem and
      the resolution to the problem.
    • Provide timely responses to client and management requests. Status
      updates on such requests need to be provided on a regular basis.
    • Follow set policies and procedures when assisting clients to ensure
      proper handling of requests.
    • Contribute knowledge and updated information to maintain the Help Desk
      SOPs and Training manuals for Tier I support.
    • Assist in new hire training to ensure successful integration into the
      team.


Federal Employee Program Operations Center/Blue Cross Blue Shield
Year-Up partnership
LAN Desktop Support Technician
August 2012 – January 2013
    • Team Track ticketing, help monitor the issues faced by customers by
      the means of incident management tickets.
    • Active Directory provide authentication and authorization services for
      hardware and software resources on the network
    • On Board/Of Board managing user accounts
    • Support development and implementation of new computer projects and
      new hardware installations.
    • Construct, install, and test customized configurations based on
      various platforms and operating systems.
 • Collaborate with technology team members to ensure efficient operation of
   the organization’s desktop computing environment.






