RAMAKRISHNA NETI
Frisco, TX 75035 | +1 732-397-9407 | ramakrish.neti@gmail.com Work Authorization Status: U.S. Citizen
Professional Summary
Rama is a senior Data Engineering and Analytics professional with over twenty years of experience spanning
consulting, business development, technical program management, delivery and operations across industry
domains that includes Banking and Finance, Life Sciences, Healthcare, Insurance and Consumer Goods.
Provided technology leadership in Data Management and Analytics and has also participated and assisted in
formulating vision, consulting, business development plans and strategies.
Led large, enterprise-wide transformational programs, operations, managed budgets, recruited and managed
large high performing, geographically dispersed teams of data engineers including vendors. Experience with
offshore development centers.
High energy, strategic thinking, results oriented, collaborative management style, servant leadership with a
sense of humor.
Skills
• Strategic Leadership, Program, People and Budget • ERP (Oracle Financials, PeopleSoft HR and
Management and Communications Financials, SAP and Infor)
• Business Development, Pre-Sales Consulting • Data Science, AI/ML - Python, Jupyter
• Data Management and Governance Notebooks, AWS SageMaker, Pandas, Scikit-
• Data Integration - ETL/ELT (Informatica learn, NLP, Deep Learning - Keras, R, Statistical
PowerCenter, PowerExchange, EDC Data Quality, Inference, GitHub
Data Governance, MDM/ PIM, EDC, Axon), Alteryx • Familiarity with Marketing Mix (MMM) and
• BI (MicroStrategy, BO, Cognos, MS BI, Oracle BI) Attribution modeling
• Databases: Oracle, MS SQL Server, Teradata • Syndicated data platforms (Nielsen, D&B, IMS)
• Data Visualization (Tableau 2.0, Power BI) • HIPAA, GDPR, and PCI-DSS regulations
• Cloud Data warehouse/ SAAS and IPAAS solutions: • ERP - Oracle, PeopleSoft
Cloud Migration, data platform modernization, • Technical Program/Project Management: MS
AWS EC2, S3, Redshift, Glue, Athena, Snowflake Project, JIRA, ServiceNow, Confluence, Scaled
(certified), Azure Data Engineering (Azure Data Agile Framework
Factory, Synapse, Databricks, CI/CD - certified) • MS Office - Word, Visio, Excel, PowerPoint
Page 1 of 5
Work History
Southern Glazer's Wines and Spirits – Dallas, TX 01/2018 to Current
Director - Data Management & Analytics
Southern Glazer's Wines and Spirits is the world's pre-eminent distributor of beverage alcohol, logistics and
data insights company. Managed the following multimillion dollar transformational Data Analytics project
portfolio.
• ONESource, an Enterprise Data Analytics platform hosted on AWS EC2 Cloud comprising of
Informatica 10.4 PowerCenter, PowerExchange ETL tools, Informatica Product Information Management
(PIM)/Digital Asset Management (DAM), Data Lake on Cloudera CDH and Reporting Data Marts on
AWS Redshift, Business Objects Reports, Tableau and Power BI Dashboards and APIs for use by
commercial sales and operations planning, supply chain, Revenue Management, Enterprise Digital
Transformation and eCommerce platforms as well suppliers.
• ‘SG Proof’ digital enterprise/ eCommerce platform implementation using SFDC, SFMC, SAP Hybris
- helped drive eCommerce revenues of $1.2B YTD during the pandemic.
• Integration of data across Southern and Glazer's post-merger and provide one version of the truth for
reporting, analytics, and other applications. This includes retirement of legacy EDW and SAP HANA
platforms after migration to OneSource Cloud EDW platform; rationalization and consolidation of BI
tools and data marts and enablement Self-Service BI capabilities via standardized reports and
dashboards using Tableau and SAP BO.
• Leveraged syndicated data from Nielsen such as TDLinx, a curated and cleansed database of all
licensed beverage alcohol accounts in the USA, Alcoholic Beverage Industry Trends etc.
• Establishment of Data Quality and Data Governance processes (Enterprise Data Council, Data Operating
Model) with the implementation Informatica Data Quality (IDQ), Enterprise Data Catalog (EDC)
and Business Glossary (Axon)
• Predictive Analytics projects (using AI/ML techniques): Partnered closely with stakeholders from various
lines of business, data scientists, and other cross functional teams to drive requirements, identification
of use cases, define milestones and success metrics, and build scalable, secure, reliable, and efficient
solutions in alignment to enterprise strategies/priorities around Data and AI/ML, defining technology
(AWS SageMaker Machine Learning Studio) and tools, and standing up the Data Science Sandbox.
Some of the use cases are (i) Product Demand Forecasting (ii) Sales Visit Optimization (iii) Customer
Digital Profile Segmentation Modeling and Personalization to power marketing, ad operations and
notification in eCommerce for marketing / ads etc., gathering sessions for the identification and
implementation use cases, model integration, MVP deployment.
• Led a proof-of-concept project for evaluating Snowflake and Azure Databricks for the enterprise data
warehouse modernization.
• Lights-on support, operations and maintenance of Cloud EDW platform, batch and real-time workloads,
capacity planning, AWS Cloud billing and cost management, version upgrades of Informatica, Linux,
Hadoop, and Redshift, ensure application availability and uptime SLA of 99.9%. Used ServiceNow for
Change Control and Production Support tickets.
• Manage a team of 25 geographically dispersed data engineers by leading, coaching, and training them to
encourage their development and ensure the execution of their performance goals throughout the year.
Page 2 of 5
Southwest Airlines (Mastech Digital Inc.) Dallas, TX 05/2017 to 12/2017
Senior Managing Consultant – Data Strategy
Lead the proof-of-value and innovation projects to support the enablement of the company's Strategic
Capabilities by managing the Agile Airline Platform program that would offer new ways of managing data
across Southwest organization to better align with industry trends and needs. It would support Southwest
Airline's data-driven transformation by integrating cross-domain airline data and storing it in a central hub in
near real-time and used to orchestrate actions based on data and event correlation. The platform would seek
to enable Customer Centricity, Operational Agility, and Data Science.
American Express – Fort Lauderdale, FL
Technical Program Manager - Global Risk Technology 07/2015 to 05/2017
• Managed Global Credit & Fraud Risk platforms and use case projects using Big Data (MAPR Hadoop
distribution projects such as Hive, HBase, Oozie, Spark etc.), APIs, ML Algorithms by working closely with
cross-functional teams: business (product owners), compliance, technology (architects and engineers) and
infrastructure. Also responsible for portfolio ($5M) management functions including financial forecasts
and resource management. Lead Scrum teams and worked closely with the product owners to translate
epics, stories, and other items on the sprint list into actionable tasks for developers.
• Lead the migration of a central and global risk data engine from mainframes to Hadoop Big Data
Platform. The engine provides a complete view of the customer relationship by enabling daily review of
customer for roll-ups, assessment, and decisioning. The product is used by the Decision Sciences team for
performing risk modeling. This product provides financial risk variables that are shared across the
enterprise for (i) Authorization (ii) Credit Servicing (iii) Credit Bureau reporting (iv) New Accounts &
Underwriting (v) Marketing (vi) Risk Management and (vii) Collections. Worked with Enterprise Data
Governance team for its approvals while creating new data assets. This resulted in driving up
transaction numbers and lifting revenue.
• Managed ‘Card member Income Information Capture’ project: Capturing card member annual income
(includes compensation from a number of sources – salaries, wages and bonuses received from
employment; dividends and distributions received from investments, rental receipts from real estate
investments etc.) and consolidating across multiple systems both in batch and real-time, perform income
arbitration, apply privacy/opt-out settings at affiliate bank level to provide up to date Income information
for Card members. This data is used by other use cases such as Debt Capacity and Dynamic Eligibility.
• Managed implementation of Machine Learning use cases such as ‘Declining fraud transactions at the
point of sale’ while enabling more legitimate spend and delivering more positive customer experience
using Gradient Boosting Machine Learning capability.
• Got exposure to financial crimes systems including KYC, Sanctions, AML, Transaction Monitoring, and
compliance.
Perficient Inc. - Dallas, TX 01/2015 to 07/2015
Director – Healthcare Data Management, Plano, TX
• Led the creation Healthcare Analytics Gateway accelerator to help healthcare customers like DaVita compress
long lead-times to load data from various sources such as EMR, EPIC, Cerner, AllScripts etc. into their
Healthcare Provider Data Model and subsequently into high-value analytic use cases by leveraging pre-built
IBM DataStage templates for populating a rich set of subject areas within the data model. This solution was
also ported to Informatica.
Page 3 of 5
• Managed HCP MDM project using Informatica MDM Hub for BCBS MA.
Mastercard Inc. (Wipro Technologies) – St. Louis, MO 01/2014 to 12/2014
Director - Analytics & Information Management
Provided Data Analytics advisory services. Lead the following roadmap initiatives:
• Big Data Proof of Concept projects such as ‘Clearance' Data Lake using Cloudera Distribution as well as
Production Implementation and Support.
• Driving strategic reference architectures for the Enterprise Architecture team for enabling new business
capabilities including BI Health Assessment/Roadmap that involved Tool Evaluation and Rationalization
POC involving SSRS, OBIEE, QlikView and Web Focus tools; Microsoft Power BI Dashboard POC
• Master Data Management (MDM) solution for the Party Domain (Credit and Debit Card Issuers, their
Accounts, and affiliations) using Informatica MDM Hub Console for Match and Merge using Match Rules,
Trust Settings, and Validation Rules. Establishing data governance and stewardship processes and
operationalizing MDM.
• Informatica Data Integration Hub POC
• Lights-on support of Data warehouse environments on Oracle Exadata and Netezza platforms
• Managing alliance partnerships with Microsoft, Oracle etc.
Cognizant Technology Solutions – Hyderabad, India 01/2009 to 01/2014
Assoc. Director - Analytics & Information Management Practice
Set up offshore development centers for major Banking & Financial, Pharma, Healthcare, Insurance, and
Logistics clients. Led the following BI & Analytics engagements.
• Wells Fargo Bank: Managed a $5M ‘Customer Profitability NextGen Platform’ program for the Wholesale
Banking division, by building data warehouse and BI layer using DataStage 8.1, OBIEE 11g, Oracle 11g,
J2EE technologies.
• Wells Fargo Bank: BI Report rationalization/consolidation involving migration of Actuate, SAS and Java
technologies to SQL Server Reporting Services 2008.
• Major Life Insurance client: CFO Dashboard (consisting of Sales, Headcount, OPEX, CAPEX, P&L,
Margins, Zone-wise performance etc.) and Ready Reckoner reports using Cognos BI tools.
• Global Investment and Technology Development firm: Enterprise Data warehouse implementation for
supporting multiple lines of business and analytical functions including risk and compliance.
• Novartis Pharma: Led the ‘Succeed and Lifeline BI Assessment’ for providing an integrated / consolidated
reporting solution for business users on SUCCEED BI Data, identify, and address pain areas in the system
through existing BI tools in Novartis reporting landscape.
• WellPoint Inc. Managed programs pertaining to EDWard (centralized, near-real-time enterprise data
warehouse). This is one of the largest data warehouses (housing nearly 100TB of data) in the health
insurance industry covering 35 million active insured lives was built by integrating multiple sources of data
into a single enterprise-wide data model on Teradata and promoting standardized platforms, tools, and
definitions.
Cognizant Technology Solutions – Teaneck, NJ 11/2006 to 12/2008
Senior Manager - Analytics & Information Management Practice
Managed the following multimillion dollar Data Analytics programs for major Pharma and Insurance clients.
• Novartis Pharma: (1) Enterprise Sales and Marketing Data Warehouse, BI & Analytics (2) Business
Intelligence Competency Center (BICC) (3) ‘Aggregate Spend' regulatory compliance reporting solution
Page 4 of 5
using Cognos and Oracle (4) Construction of Commercial Data Warehouse using Oracle, MicroStrategy,
SAS and IBM WebSphere DataStage (5) Informatica (Siperian) MDM solution implementation.
• Pfizer Pharma: Upgrade of Development Information Factory (DIF) data warehouse platform from
Informatica 6.2.2 to 8.1.1. DIF is the reference source for several master data subject areas as part of their
Global Research & Development
• Farmers Insurance: Enterprise-wide CRM & Analytics implementation ($10M) for Farmers Insurance (with
various product lines such as Auto, Home, Life, Small business and Commercial) using Siebel and Oracle BI
(OBIEE 10.1.3.3). This included defining the data integration strategy involving disparate sources of data
from various group companies, data modeling, KPI definitions and their governance, ETL and
report/dashboard design and development.
BI Lead - KPMG LLP, Big Four Accounting – Montvale, NJ 04/2000 to 10/2006
• Lead Enterprise-wide BI solutions for Tax, Audit and Assurance groups within KPMG using Informatica,
Oracle, SQL Server, MicroStrategy and Microsoft BI (SSIS and SSRS).
• Assisted in the implementation of Engagement Reporting (ER), a financial decision support system on
Oracle Data Warehouse for supporting over 12,000 standard report users such as Partners, Engagement
Managers etc. and over 400 power users using Informatica PowerCenter 7.x, Oracle PL/SQL, MicroStrategy
and Business Objects.
Education/Certifications
• MBA: Operations Management from Indira Gandhi National Open University - New Delhi, India
• Bachelor of Science: Engineering (Electronics & Communication) from University of Mysore, India
• Microsoft Certified: Azure Data Engineer Associate – 10/2023
• Snowflake SnowPro Core Certification – 05/2023
• Practical Data Science with Amazon SageMaker - 09/2021
• Advanced Leadership Program @ Southern Glazers Wines and Spirits - 10/2020
• AI & ML Blackbelt Certification through Analytics Vidhya – 10/2021
Courses: (i) AI and ML for Business Leaders (ii) Applied Machine Learning (iii)Computer Vision using Deep
Learning 2.0 (iv) Natural Language Processing (NLP) Using Python (v) Retail Demand Prediction using
Machine Learning (vi) Structured Thinking and Communication for Data Science (vii) Tableau 2.0
Visualization (viii) Capstone Project: Sentiment Analysis of social media comments from patients using
drugs of a large pharma company
• Certified SAFe (Scaled Agile Framework) Agilist – 05/2017
• Data Science Certification from Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health – 09/2016
• Courses: (i) R Programming (ii) Exploratory Data Analysis and Reproducible Research (iii) Statistical
Inference (vii) Regression Models and (iv) Capstone project on Text Mining using Natural Language
Processing (NLP)
• Certified Scrum Master from Scrum Alliance
• PMP Project Management Professional from Project Management Institute
Page 5 of 5
