
Rajnikanth ChingiReddy

c.rajnikanth@gmail.com

Phone Number: 704-458-4396



 Professional Summary:

    • Senior .Net / Integration Consultant, vast experience working with a
      broad range of Technologies.
    • Vast experience in each phases of Software Development Lifecycle
      (SDLC) and experienced to work as a team member as well as an
      individual performer under the large development groups.
    • Expertise in planning and implementing Electronic Data Interchange
      (EDI) and Business-to-business(B2B) integrations solutions supporting
      of business objectives, to implemented utilizing Solution Oriented
      Architecture (SOA)
    • Experience in data model design, performance tuning and development of
      stored procedures, tables, views, functions and indexes (SQL Server).
    • Experience in Designing and Developing Micoservices, Infrastructure
      Code, Business Components, Windows services and libraries using Design
      Patterns.
    • Experience working in Azure Cloud environment.
    • Worked in agile framework, collaborating with business and research
      teams in story grooming, reviewing story/acceptance criteria and
      performance metrics.
    • Vastly worked with Architecture Presentation Patterns MVC, MVP and
      MVVM.
    • Experience in Client Interaction, Technical Analysis Documents
      Creation and Task Estimations.
    • Expertise in EDI Transactions 204, 214, 210, 990, 845, 940, 270, 271,
      275, 276, 837 P, 834, 835.
    • Well versed in developing Complex Orchestrations implementing Error
      Handling, Compensation and Failed Message Routing
    • Domin experience includes Automotive, Judicial, Financial Services,
      Health Insurance, Health Care, and Logistics (Supply chain)
    • Excellent skills on written and verbal communication with the stake
      holders.
    • Excellent interpersonal skills, proven team player with an analytical
      bent to problem sloving and delivering under high stress environment.
    • Posses strong technical aptitude with strong analytical and problem
      solving skills.

Area of Expertise:

.Net Framework               .Net 1.0 - .Net 4.7.2
.Net Core              2.1 - 3.0.3
Languages              C# and Visual Basic .Net
Web                    ASP .Net, ASP .Net MVC, ASP .Net Web API
GUI’s                  Microsoft C#, VB.NET, Visual Basic 6.0
Integration Tools                 BizTalk 2002 – 2016 R2.
BizTalk Tools    BAM, HAT, BRE, BTS Editor, BTS Mapper, Orchestration
                       Designer, Pipeline
EDI Standards                NSI ASC X12, HIPAA, HL7, ACORD, GJXDM, NIEM
and EDI
Data Format            XML,Json, XSL, HTML.
Web Tools              Front Page 2000, Dream Weaver, Visual Interdev and
Share Point Designer 2007
Databases              Microsoft SQL Server 2000-2018
IIS Servers            Version 6.0, 7.0 , 7.5 and 8.0
Reports                                            SSRS
Code Repository Software          GitHub, TFS and VSS.

Eduction:   Masters Of Computer Application (MCA), Hyderbad, India.
            Bachelors of Computer Science (M.S.CS), Hyderbad, India.

Certifications:

       Microsoft Certified: Azure Developer Associate
Project Details:

Equinor US, Houston, TX                                             Apr ’21
– Present
Azure Integation Architect

Project: Omnia
Equinor ASA (formerly Statoil and StatoilHydro) is a Norwegian state-owned
multinational energy company headquartered in Stavanger. It is primarily a
petroleum company, operating in 36 countries with additional investments in
renewable energy.

Responsibilities:
      • Working with Business Owners to gather requirements to build
        interfaces in Ominia(Azure Paltform).
      • Design and Develop Micro Services Architecture using Azure
        artifacts.
      • Working with Azure API Management to build API’s for Frontend and
        Backend systems and applications.
      • Implementing several Design Patterns in Azure Logic Apps like
        Convoys, Splitter and Content Based Routing.
      • Supporting Azure Applications/ Interfaces in Prod for issues and
        defects.
      • Ingest data from multiple system using LogicApps, ADF and
        Databricks.
      • Working with Business Owners to build custome views from Ingested
        data and configure in Azure Catalogue.
    • Design and delivering automated DevOps solution for CI and CD (ARM
      templates, YAML and RC Pipelines).
    • Develop test data for System Maintenance and Performance validation
      for the Interfaces.
    • Unit testing and moving the developed Artifacts to production.
    • Involved in UAT and Knowledge transfer

Environment:
Microsoft Visual Studio.Net 2019, Visual Studio Code, C#, .Net Core, XML,
JSON, XSLT, GitHub, Azure Cloud technology (DevOps (CI/CD), Logic Apps,
Functions, ADF, DataBricks, Blob storage, ADLS, Service Bus, Log analytics,
Application Insight, APIM, Power BI, Cataloge, Catalog,Management),
Postman, SOAP UI

Stanley Black & Decker, Hardford, CT                                Oct ’20
– Apr ‘21
Azure Integation Architect

Project: Agora
Stanley Black and Decker, which serves as the Manufacturing company across
the world. This project is about implementing Integration solutions in
Azure and migrating BizTalk interfaces. Integrating Applications with
different ERP Systems around the world.

Responsibilities:
    • Analyze existing integration applications (BizTalk Interfaces) and
      come up high-level SOA design.
    • Responsible for converting the high-level design into Technical
      Specifications and detailed design document
    • Responsible for proposing the new and improved solutions based on the
      project scalability and expected requirements of client
    • Schedule and prioritize work and plan a sequence of development
      activities that accomplish the planned targets and provide reports to
      the management
    • Perform application systems development tasks which include working
      with users to define system needs, analyzing and designing
      applications to meet user needs, translating logic diagrams into
      program statements, deploying and implementing packages and conducting
      research in emerging technologies.
    • Rewrite pipeline and custome components using Azure Functions
    • Rewrite or convert BizTalk maps toXSLT.
    • Implementing details design documents in development of Azure iPaas
      (Azure Service Bus, Azure Logic Apps, Azure Monitor, Azure Key Vault,
      Azure Function Apps, AS2 Connector, Integration Account).
    • Design and delivering automated DevOps solution for CI and CD (ARM
      templates, YAML and RC Pipelines).
    • Develop test data for System Maintenance and Performance validation
      for the Interfaces.
    • Unit testing and moving the developed Artifacts to production.




Environment:
BizTalk 2016 R2, Microsoft Visual Studio.Net 2019, Visual Studio Code, C#,
.Net Core, XML, JSON, XSLT, GitHub, Azure Cloud technology (DevOps,Blob,
Logic Apps, Service Bus, Log analytics,Application Insight, Functions and
API Management), Postman, SOAP UI


Cox Automotive Inc, Atlanta, GA                                     June
’18 – Oct ‘20
Integration Architect (.net / BizTalk)

Project: Vehicle Remarketing and Inventory Management
RMS Automotive is a web-based business product allows to transform the way
that vehicle manufacturers and large fleet operators manage their assets
through the vehicle lifecycle. Application provides modular inventory
management software and insight that ensures the streamlined, efficient
processing of those vehicles throughout the lifecycle – from build, to
transportation, to in-life, to de-fleet to remarketing and then on to
retail. End-to-end inventory management processes enable our customers to
identify the location and condition of every vehicle in the lifecycle and
to make intelligent decisions in real time to maximize the value of each
vehicle asset. The core product features are Inventory, pricing, auctions,
sales center, driver sales, auction management, sale channels, reporting,
invoicing and many more areas of rich functionality.

Responsibilities:
    ▪ Built BizTalk 2016 R2 environment and updated of all existing
      applications to new environment.
    ▪ Build integration with Manheim systems to get vehicle information.
    ▪ Worked closely with program managers and develope new product
      feature that increased sales by 20%.
    ▪ Integrated with CAFS services that enhanced.
    ▪ Develop new Manage Buyer Premium Page to support new fee structure
      and provide GD Buy and Sell fee price to Manheim sales facilitation
      services.
    ▪ Migrated all old FTP integrations to Azure by subscribing to vendor
      messages and processing those with Functions Apps
    ▪ Migrated BizTalk schedule adapter tasks to Azure by implementing
      Logic app services.
    ▪ Developed new libraries with Micro Services architecture using Rest
      APIs.
    ▪ Developed XSLT transformations that are used for integrations.
    ▪ Finding stored procedures that are causing performance issues and
      finetuning it.
    ▪ Migrated from TFS to GitHub and build in procedure or guide lines to
      merge code.
    ▪ Worked extensively with stake holders in UAT environment for
      approvals on new features.
    ▪ Migrated from TeamCity (CD) and Octopus (CI) to Azure Devops (BTDF)
    ▪ Integrated Application Insights feature of Azure Monitor and
      Application Performance Management (APM) service for developers and
      New Relic users.
    ▪ Developed Orchestrations and integrated with WebApi (Restful
      services).
    ▪ Created datamodel, datalayer, business layer, WebApi (Restful),and
      WebServices (SOAP) layer.
    ▪ Worked with offshore resource on SSRS reports.
    ▪ Designed UI wireframes, lead 3 developers and mentor offshore team
      and one database developer onshore.
    ▪ Trained and worked with QA team on integration testing using Postman
      and created collections that are reused by the team.

Environment:
BizTalk 2016 R2, Microsoft Visual Studio.Net 2017-2019, C#, ASP .Net Web
API, Framework 3.5 and 4.0, Window Services, WebServices XML, JSON, XSLT,
TFS, BTDF, GitHub, Octopus, Teamcity, Azure Cloud technology (DevOps,
Service Bus, Application Insight, Functions and API Management), Postman,
SOAP UI, Power shell, SSRS, SSIS and SQL Server 2018

Las Vegas Justice Court, Las Vegas, Nevada                          Feb ’12
– June ‘18
Integration Architect (.net / BizTalk)

Project: LVJC-IJIS(Las Vegas Justice Court Integrated Justice Information
System)
Real time Traffic warrant integrations with CCDC (Clark County Detention
Center), State and CC-IJIS (Clark County Integrated Justice Information
System) system. Warrants issued / recall  by LVJC are send to State system
and any booking on warrants done at CCDC would clear warrants, set court
calendar and bail info from LVJC CMS system.

Project: LRS Traffic School Integration
Integration of LRS Traffic School system with the Odyssey system from
enrollment to course completion, adding Financial and reduce charge to
illegal parking.

Project: Odyssey Integration (Criminal Case Management Implementation)
The Las Vegas Justice Courts Criminal Division began their migration from
two legacy systems to the Odyssey Case Management System. This project
required interfacing Odyssey with the Legacy application as the District
Attorney still used the legacy system as their CMS.

Project: Civil Division Appeals and Summons
Automate Civil Division appeals process to District Court and Merge
multiple case documents.

Responsibilities:

    ▪ Built BizTalk 2013 integrations servers at new Data center.
      Migration of all existing integration applications to new environment.
    ▪ Developed Frame Work to support day to day activities. For example,
      add flags to case if they are in Clark County Detention Center (Jail),
      Case Reassignment, Adding events and Custom processes.
    ▪ Developed Web Application such as Criminal Financials and Tab Quick.
    ▪ Developed Case Management Framework to support Odyssey Case
      Management System by TylerTechnologies (Add Mugshot to Parties,
      DMVConvictions, NCOStatus and more)
    ▪ Develop window services to read messages from IBM Message queue
      apply respective XSLT and do API calls to odyssey system to add
      criminal cases, PC Case, modify cases, update party details… etc.
    ▪ Implemented Logging mechanism to generate report and audit (Capture
      API request and response)
    ▪ Extensively used Odyssey API Web Service
    ▪ Extensively created Odyssey Configuration Pakages and Integration
      Codes for
    ▪ Developed SSRS reports and configured those in Odyssey ECR.
    ▪ Develop Odyssey publishing packages and write transformations (XSLT)
      to process IXML data.
    ▪ Automated process to add documents to Odyssey cases and link to the
      case events.


Environment:
Odyssey APIs and CIP, BizTalk Server 2013, BTDF, Microsoft Visual
Studio.Net 2012, Windows 2008 R2, C#, WCF, Web Service (SOAP), Window
Services, Framework 3.5 and 4.0, XML, NIEM, XSLT, TFS, and SQL Server 2008
R2

First Republic Bank , San Francisco, California
Aug ’11 – Feb ‘12
Sr. Software Consultant

Project: Spectrum Interface (EagleConnect)

EagleConnect system provides integrated banking services to a financial
software platform used by First Republic wealth management in the
entertainment industry. Implementing Spectrum electronic interface for the
FSS/Spectrum platform to post transactions to and obtain real-time
executions from OSI. This new service (FSS/Spectrum) replaces the batch
file posted at the end of each business day by the SPOT/FX system.

Environment:
BizTalk Server 2006 R2, Microsoft Visual Studio.Net 2005 - 2010, Windows
2003and  2008 R2, ASP.Net, C#, VB.Net, Microsoft Visio, WCF, Web Service,
Framework 3.5 and 4.0 , TFS, BTDF, TeamCity, VisualCon, XML, XSLT and SQL
Server 2005 - 2008 R2

State Of California , Richmond, California
                             Dec ’10 – July ‘11
Sr. Software Consultant

Project: SIS Electronic Message Exchange
The Genetic Disease Branch of the California Department of Health Services
works to protect and improve the health of all Californians. They run the
largest screening program in the world and set the standard in delivering
high-quality, cost-effective genetic services to all Californians SIS
(Screening Information System) is a fully integrated clinical screening
system that supports California’s Newborn and Prenatal Screening Programs.
In an effort to increase messaging capabilities, an electronic messaging
component is going to be added to SIS. This capability allows SIS to send
lab results directly into destination healthcare entities without the need
for physical mail

Environment:
BizTalk Server 2006 - 2010, , Microsoft Visual Studio.Net 2008 - 2010,
Windows 2005 and  2008 R2, ASP.Net, C#, VB.Net, Microsoft Visio, WCF, Web
Service, Framework 3.5 and 4.0 , TFS, SQL Server 2005 - 2008 R2, XML, XSLT
and HL7 Acc 1.3 and 2.0

Pacific Biosciences , Palo Alto, California
                       May ’10 – Nov ‘11
Sr. Software Consultant

Project: As-Shipped BOM

Pacific Biosciences is a bold company developing a transformative platform
for single molecule real time (SMRTTM) detection of biological events. SMRT
Biology promises to revolutionize the life sciences and drive radical
advances in medicine, agriculture and clean energy. In this project, we
have integrated ROSS (ERP System), Omnify (PLM System), Camstar (MES
System) and Salesforce (CRM System).

Environment: BizTalk Server 2009, , Microsoft Visual Studio.Net 2008,
ASP.NET, C#, Microsoft Visio, WCF, Framework 3.5, Web Services, ADO.net,
SVN, IIS 6.0, XML, XSLT and SQL Server 2008.

Allianz Life Insurance, Minneapolis, Minnesota
                 Jul ’09 – April ‘10
Sr. Software Consultant

Project: LCA – R3

Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America (Allianz) founded in 1896
and based in Minneapolis, provides fixed and variable annuities, life
insurance policies, and long term care insurance products in the United
States. In this project, we have integrated Callidus System (True Published
Producer / Agent / Broker) to down stream systems legacy systems such as
ID3, VersatUL, VS10 and ODS.
Environment:
BizTalk Server 2006 R2, , Microsoft Visual Studio.Net 2005, ELF Viewer,
BizUnit, Unit testing, ASP.NET, C#, Microsoft Visio, WCF, Framework 3.5,
Web Services, ADO.net, SVN, IIS 6.0, SQL Server 2005, XSLT, XML and ACORD
standards.

State of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska
Jan ‘09 – Jul ‘09
Sr. Software Consultant

Project: MMIS (Medicaid Management Information System)

State of Nebraska is reengineering their Medicaid legacy system (MMIS) with
SOA which is aligned with MITA framework. This is a $70M project involving
integration of provider enrollment, automation of claims, HIPAA transaction
sets and other sub-systems such as Imaging, IVR. This new MMIS system will
processes claims faster and more efficiently and is in compliance with
federal Medicaid requirements.

Environment:
BizTalk Server 2009, MOSS 2007, Microsoft Visual Studio.Net 2008, ESB
Toolkit 2.0, HIPPA 5010, HL7, BizUnit, nUnit, ASP.NET, C#, Microsoft Visio,
WCF, Framework 3.5, Windows Workflow, Web Services, Enterprise Library 4.1,
TFS, IIS 6.0, XML, XSLT and SQL Server 2008.

INFOUSA , Papillion, Nebraska
                       April ’08 – Dec ‘08
ReleaseManger

Project: Mainframe Migration

INFOUSA is the leading provider of business and consumer information
products, database marketing services, data processing services and sales
and marketing solutions. Content is essential ingredient in every marketing
program, and infoUSA has the most comprehensive data in the industry, and
is the only company to own a proprietary database of 210 million US
consumers and 14 million US businesses under one roof.

Environment:
BizTalk 2006 R2, C#, SAP, Windows Server 2003, Windows CE, XML,
XSLT,SQL2005, .NET 3.0/3.5, SAP R/3,TFS, SQL Adapter, Subsonic, SSIS,
ASP.NET, WCF, Web Services, RFID Manager, Alien Hardware, Symbol Readers


Siemens VDO Automotive Pte Ltd, Singapore    Oct '06 – Mar ‘08
Sr .Net / SharePoint Developer

Project: Intranet Portal sites

Its web application Build to publish Departmental New, Updates, Ongoing
Projects, Future plans, Share documents between departments of the company,
Dash board for employees where web application is integrated with existing
application such as Office Tool so particular employee can see leaves,
Claims and department calendar events. Developing a workflow based
framework which supports various kinds of approval mechanisms and building
custom web parts as per the application requirements.

Environment:
Windows 2003 Server, IIS6, C# .NET, ASP.NET, MOSS 2007,Windows SharePoint
Services, BizTalk 2006 R2, XML, XSLT, CAML, InfoPath , BizTalk Server,
Share Point Designer 2007, Infragistics(NetAdvantage) and SQL Server 2005

National Healthcare Group, Singapore                                April
'06 - Oct '06
Sr .Net Developer

Project: Aurora


Aurora is an ordering system used by medical professional in the course of
treating and diagnosing their patients. It features a comprehensive
ordering and reporting facilities for investigative laboratory tests and
radiological studies. This application is tightly integrated with CMIS,
Patient Merge and CPSS. Currently this system is been used in NUH , TTSH
institutions and their respective Polyclinics.

Environment:
.Net framework 2.0, c#.net, SQL Server 2005, Window XP, VSS and Crystal
Reports 10



Client:  MOH ,Singapore                                             Nov '05
- April '06
.Net Developer

Project:  Electronic procurement of Delivery (ePOD)

This application is mainly automating the delivery system. This is used to
help the delivery man in his delivery. In this the delivery man does the
delivery using a mobile to scan the barcode on the goods and make the
delivery automated. The process goes like the clients (MOH &HPB) places an
indent online. When the indent is approved and the Delivery Note Number is
generated which updates the ePOD application. Then whenever the indent is
delivered the confirmation is sent back using ePOD.

Environment:
.Net framework, c#.net, XML Web-services, symbian c++, symbian OS, SQL
server 2000 and semacode

STL,Singapore

.Net and BizTalk Developer

Project 1: Asset Tracking System.
                                        Jul '05 - Nov '05
Project 2: Universal Visibility - Warehouse Management System (uV-WMS 5.5)
               Apr '05 - Jul '05
Project 3: Integration of uV-WMS 5.5 with E-xe.
                             Jan '05 - Apr '05

Environment:
.NET Frame Work 1.0, VB 6.0, Microsoft BizTalk 2002-2004, MS-SQL Server
2000, Windows 2003, XML, XSLT, IBC Engine, Oracle 8.1. Tomcat 4.1.27,
Apache Web Server, IIS, Oracle 8.1.7, Crystal Reports 9.0


