Dominic M Paranzino
5614 Henry Avenue • Philadelphia, PA 19128 • Mobile: (610) 291-9698 • E-mail: Dominic@eParaTech.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com Dominic Paranzino
PROFILE
Lead Technologist - Enterprise and Solutions Architect - Security Architect. Director, Delivery Manager,
Systems Integrator, and talented Applied Mathematician with extensive experience as advanced and seasoned
Delivery Manager, Developer – Software Engineer. Strengths include relationship building, collaboration,
communication skills, experienced analysis, optimization of processes,
• Guide the Creative Process – Inspire and enable invention and effective solutions
• Establish, mentor, and lead high quality teams
• Maintain Day-to-Day Operations in Production, New Delivery, and the Organization
• Plan, design and execute strategy
• Lead and direct new initiatives
• Identify improvement opportunities
• Build strong relationships with stakeholders
• Bring projects to completion using state-of-the-art process and project management
• Leverage engineering background to conduct complex analyses and solve business challenges
WORK EXPERIENCE
• Life Sciences – Healthcare Technolgy Leader and Contributor
• Data Scientist - Technology Architect - Software Engineer – Production Engineer
• Delivery Manager – Project Manager – Director
• Advisory and Audit Professional, Compliance and Governance for Government and Industry
• Technology Instructor – Big Data - Databases, Software Engineering, Production Engineering
Current Work Experience – from 2015 to Present
Johnson & Johnson – Kenvue, from 2022 to Present
Identity and Access Management - PKI Administration – Certificate Services CA Management
Senior Lead Engineer & Acting Manager – Excellent Management Performance reviews
Senior SME and Lead Engineer, IAM PKI Administration for Digital Certificate Services, Certificate Authority CA
administrator. Providing Server teams, App Teams and End Users internal and external SSL Certificates, Client – Server
Authentication Certificates, eMail S/MIME Certificates, Device Certificates, Server Certificates, Document Signing
Certificates, and Code Signing Certificates.
Ping Federate and Ping Access SSO, SAML, OAuth, OpenID.
Navigated guided and led the IAM PKI Administration function of Kenvue during the historic separation of J&J Consumer
Products as Kenvue, a Member of the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies.
Windows Administration and Windows Server Admin, Active Directory Administration, including Azure.
L3, L2, L1 Support using ITIL – ESP Service Now, Kenvue Daisy and J&J IRIS. Managed the support queue.
Delivered the groundbreaking, historic first FDA Regulatory Document Signing – Digital Signatures solution, for the J&J
Kenvue FDA Regulatory team. Meeting FDA Regulatory requirements and Health Canada Regulatory requirements. The
solution is also implemented for Document Signing across the entire J&J Kenvue Organization.
Authored several Organization facing and Technical Documents, to publish and support PKI Administration and Certificate
Services.
Prepared and Delivered the IAM PKI Administration Services and Product Roadmap, as Product Owner, Lead Engineer
and Manager of Certificate Services – IAM PKI. The Roadmap defines the current and future Technology and
Organizational Requirements for IAM PKI Certifcate Services at J&J Kenvue.
Medical Research Data Scientist – Bioinformatics - Big Data Architect, Technical PM, from 2018
All of Us Program for the NIH – National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD. https://allofus.nih.gov
My responsibilities include Data Sciences lead, data profiling, statistical analysis and metrics, ETL, data modeling.
♦ Lead Data Scientist - Architect and Developer, responsible for hands-on coding of the ETL and Data Analysis
♦ MS SQL Server SSIS, SSAS, C++, C# .Net, SQL Scripts and Stored Procedures. COGNOS 11 BI and Reporting
and Analysis, SQL and Stored Procedures, Data Modeling and Relational Database SQL Programming, Amazon
Redshift, and MySQL.
♦ Azure Cloud Data Warehouse services and Azure - Active Directory security and role management, Using
SAS, Hadoop – SparkSQL for data analysis, ETL support and reference data preparation and testing. Big Data
warehouse DBA lead, systems and platform architect.
♦ Windows Server Administration
Life Sciences – Healthcare Director and Contributor roles
Director – New Technologies - Regulatory Compliance and Enterprise Architecture, Clinical Trials
Director - New Technologies - Regulatory Compliance – Project Manager, Enterprise Architect, Security Specialist and
Engineering Manager, with several years of experience in Pharmaceutical and Health Care, Financial industry,
Government Systems Integrators and other industries. His current FDA Regulatory, GCP, FDA 21 CFR 11, HIPAA and
HCFA Projects establish the Computer Security and Regulatory standards for leading Pharmaceutical and Life
Sciences organizations. He is a Project Manager, Federal Enterprise Architect – Security Policy expert. Dominic has
performed 21 CFR 11 audit, design, configuration and development of FDA compliant Computer Systems supporting
Electronic Signatures and Digital Certificates in both Web and Desktop application platforms, with systems developed as
the Security and Administrative backbone for Manufacturing, R&D, Clinical and HR/Administrative functions worldwide.
He developed FDA Bio Assay – Drug Potency software, with mastery of advanced Pharmacological data analysis and
testing procedures. Service delivery to Merck, Clinilabs, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, CVS Pharmacy Corporate,
Bristol Myers Squibb, Sanofi-Aventis, Independence Blue Cross, NJ State Medicare / Medicaid.
Dominic has published several Industry Papers on Computer Security and composed the User Guide for a major
Pharmaceutical company "Explaining Digital Certificates", for both Technical and non-Technical users. He Directed design
meetings involving several major Pharmaceutical company's departments on FDA, HIPAA and 21 CFR 11 compliance.
IBM Corporation - exclusive Product development SaaS Application - 2018 to Present
Software Engineer - HIPAA Compliance, Healthcare and PII Regulatory
IBM Cloud Integrations with AWS Cloud - Solution Development
• Watson AI Analytics and Data Sciences
• IBM Security Cloud based Authorization and Access Control Management AM – IM
• Digital Certificates – Full Lifecycle – PKI, SSL
• Ping Identity – Ping Federated – Ping Access integration of cross Cloud SaaS and Web Apps
• IBM AppID Security
• IBM DataPower ESB
• Node React Application Development
• C++, C#, C Language Development
• IBM DB2 Cloud Databases – SQL, Relational Database Design, including DBA role
Threat Analysis and Incident Response:
• Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) algorithms
• Vultnerability Testing and Management
• Penetration Testing
• Production and Application Forensics
• Infrastructure and Application Monitoring
Enterprise Application Design and Development for Life Sciences, from 2018 to Present
We Care Advocates, Patient Intake, Medical History and Personal PII and HIPAA information Responsive Web
Application. Included Production deployment and support on AWS Amazon Cloud.
❑ Developed responsive Web Application React.js, Node.js, JavaScript frameworks, Microservices, JEE Web
Application, AWS Elastic Beanstalk – Amazon Web Services EC2 hosting. RDS Database and Data Modeling,
MySQL development, SQL Programming, Stored Procedures, plus DBA responsibilities.
❑ Big Data and Analytics design and development, MySQL, Amazon Redshift, COGNOS 11 BI and Reporting, SQL
and Stored Procedures, Data Modeling and Relational Database SQL Programming, Web App data intake and
reporting development in SQL, Java JEE, C and C++, and Java Script.
❑ Design and Implementation of Okta Directory with Azure – Active Directory integrations to secure the JEE and
React.js application, Microservices and Web Services.
❑ Windows Server Administration, Active Directory Administration
❑ Design and Implementation of PingFederated for SSO and SAML 2.0, for the JEE and React.js applications,
Microservices and Web Services.
❑ IT Security – RBAC access roles, AWS Cognito, AWS Roles. Network Security SSL / HTTPS, PKI, Digital
Certificates, VPN and VPC.
Manager, Operations CISCO Security Services from 2021 to 2022 (2yrs)
(..Significant current position please refer to the detailed write-up document provided)
This information extends the Cisco position document attached.
Director – Technical PM – Security Services Lead Engineer and Corporate SME- 2020 to 2021
The Charles Schwab Corporation, San Francisco CA – Austin TX
(..Significant recent position please refer to the position write-up document in addition to this resume)
eParaTech LLC, IBM Business Partner
Director and PM, Service Delivery and Engineering
Pennovation, The University of Pennsylvania and Wharton - September 2017 to present
(Positions and Details upon request..)
• Cybersecurity – IT Security Engineer and Operations Manager (big tech)
• Security and Application Architect – Systems Integrator – Software Engineer – Production Engineer
• IBM DataPower ESB – Deployments - Installation, Administration, Integration, Migrations,
Instrumentation
• Advisory and Audit Professional, Compliance and Governance
• Big Data – Data Warehouse – Data Analytics - Business Intelligence BI and Decision Support DSS
Position Details – Duties and Responsibilities
Manager, Operations CISCO Security Services from 2021 (2yrs)
This information extends the Cisco position document attached.
The position at Cisco is vast, deep and fast paced, high volume. Management - Infrastructure - Project delivery - ITIL
ESP (Service Now) - endless non-stop Tier 2 and Level 3 support. AnyConnect VPN, Duo MFA 2FA, SAML 2.0 and
OAuth - Open ID OIDC, LDAP.
I support internal Security Teams, Development teams, Production Engineers, Duo MFA and SSO on all major platforms
listed below. Consultations and Leadership SME duties is part of most Support issues and Tickets.
Create, develop support and modify configure SSO Integrations and Application Endpoint (URL) security policy, in Prod
and Non Prod environments using the top-tier vendor products Ping Federate, Ping Access, Okta, Duo SSO, Duo MFA -
2FA. SAML OAuth, OpenID.
Threat Analysis and Incident Response:
• Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) algorithms
• Vultnerability Testing and Management
• Penetration Testing
• Production and Application Forensics
• Network Analysis / Monitoring– Tracing and Forensics
• Infrastructure and Application Monitoring
• Cyberthreat Detection and Response
Digital Certificates - Certificate rollovers, expirations, installation and update. SAML 2.0, PKI - Digital Certificates full
life cycle and Encryption.
I respond to Critical P1 EOC issues Cisco-wide as an Integral Team critical to restoration of Services or high-valued
Applications.
Networks - Networks more Networks - Switches - Routers - Firewalls - SLB - Load Balancers - Global Load Balancers
(this is Cisco ! :-)
Multiple, Data Center clustered-deployments of - Ping Federate, Ping Access, Duo MFA, Duo SSO, Apache HTTPS web
severs, LDAPs - AD
• Ping Federate (on Prem)
• Ping Access (on Prem)
• OKTA SSO (Cloud)
• Duo SSO (Hybrid Cloud)
• Duo MFA - 2FA (Hybrid Cloud)
Integrations and support for technologies including IBM DataPower ESB, AWS Cloud platforms, Google Cloud,
Salesforce.
Monitoring and Infrastructure Production Analytics - System Engineer at Linux RHEL - Open Shift Containers (Hybrid
Cloud) - Dockers - Cabernets
Expert level Analysis and Monitoring in Splunk, AppDynamics, ScienceLogic.
Linux Performance Monitoring and Tuning in Production and Non Prod.
Network Monitoring and Routing Analysis
Database monitoring and support - SQL programming.
RHEL OS Patching, Product installs, upgrades and patching, key rotations - Ping Access, Ping Federate, Duo MFA and
Duo SSO.
Network routing configuration - updates - analysis
Director – Technical PM – Security Services Lead Engineer and Corporate SME 2020 - 2021
The Charles Schwab Corporation, San Francisco CA – Austin TX
(..Significant recent position please refer to the position write-up document in addition to this resume)
IDENTITY And ACCESS Management Services – MySSO Program Level Security Service (Corporate wide)
➢ Performed Integrations and Migrations for 300+ Enterprise Class Applications in Cloud – SaaS and On Prem
➢ Configure and support SAML 2.0, OAuth – OpenID, SSO Single Sign On & Web Access Management,
Federations, MFA PingID & Symantec VIP, SHA2, X509 Certificates implementation and management, Browser
Post & Redirect & Artifact, Encryption, Full Life cycle Digital Certificate management SSL PKI, LDAP design
& implementation, Authentication & Authorizations – roles permissions.
➢ Integrations including IBM DataPower ESB, Salesforce Cloud, AWS Cloud, Googe Cloud
➢ The Voice of the Project for Charles Schwab – Corporate Communication to C-Suite – Exec VPs, Application
Engineering teams, External Vendors, Infrastructure and Security Engineering teams via WebEx & Presentation
➢ Managed Global Delivery while Performing ground-up SSO Integrations, Engineering Security Federations for
SaaS Applications vendor hosted, Schwab Hosted, and cloud hosted.
➢ Orchestrated the Turnaround of the MySSO Migrations project, ran the weekly Management Reporting
Meeting – Estimations & Costing & Financials, Advised and Guided Schwab Management on delivery strategy
and tactical delivery of over 200 Applications for migrations and new integrations to MySSO Single Sign On.
➢ Managed US and Offshore Engineers daily – Task Assignments, Status Reporting, Scrum stand-up meeting,
Issue resolution – people and issues management, shift assignments, ovenight staffing
➢ Performed Hiring and Interviewing, Prepared Staff Engineer and PM Evaluations for senior management
➢ Compliance & Audit: Performed and met SOX – FINRA – PCI Audit and Compliance
➢ Designed Agile Scrum, Kanban and Jira methodology, configured Kanban Board, Jira tickets, Reports & Metrics
➢ ITIL Production Engineering – from QA to Production, QA – UAT – Production cycles for each Integration.
Change Management – formal CRQ Remedy process – representing MySSO at Production approval meetings
➢ All SSO includes Authentications and Authorizations, LDAP desgin & engineering, roles and permissions.
Infrastructure Telemetry monitoring, SPLUNK Monitoring and Search, Production admin console access.
IBM Security Engineering – IBM Security Group – April 2019 to July 2019
IBM for AT&T, Dallas Tx.
Invited by IBM to Secure the AT&T Streaming Media platforms (see my original Implementation of AT&T Streaming
for Motorola Mobility in 2012 – 2013), using IBM Security Access Manager (ISAM), IBM Federated Security Manager
(IFIM), and Security Identity Manager (ISIM), LDAP Directory and Azure – Active Directory, SSO and Federated SAML,
OAuth and OpenID, Apple Single Sign On SSO, PKI – SSL, Digital Certificates, Java, Java Script and .Net, Application
and Microservices – Web Serivces security, Web App, Mobile App and Services integrations.
Threat Analysis and Incident Response:
• Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) algorithms
• Production and Application Forensics
• Network Analysis / Monitoring– Tracing and Forensics
• Infrastructure and Application Monitoring
• Cyberthreat Detection and Response
My initial work for Motorola Home, built this AT&T Streaming platform in 2012-2013, AT&T Streaming includes
Direct TV, Watch TV Now, the AT&T App, Apple Streaming, Disney, Time Warner content. Please see Motorola and
AT&T in this resume.
Financial Services Customer
Data Modeling and new Database Creation – MySQL - May 2018 to October 2018
AWS Node.js Web Services development - JSON RESTful, and SOAP WebServices
IT Security – Access Management and Identity Management – IBM ISAM, ISIM, Okta Directory, LDAP
Financial Industry Compliance, Compliance standards for hosting and security.
Service Delivery Management - (Direct Customer proceeding under NDA, overview description follows...)
Financial Application design, development and Data Modeling of an original Relational Database, including Node.js
Microservices development to access database. AWS JSON REST Microservices, Web Services, development and
integration with SOAP WebServices. SQL and Data Access web services development. Security Integration and
modification of the Application, Okta Directory introducing Ping Identity – Ping Federated – Ping Access
integration of cross Cloud React Web App and SaaS Application, RBAC, SSO, OAuth, SAML, Microservices and
WebServce integrations and migration, LDAP Directory integration.
December 2017 to May 2018 – Professional Technology Instructor
Node.js - App Dev and Databases Course Delivery – Prepared materials, and delivered courses to 10 professional
engineers, students and managers.
IBM Corporation – eParaTech IBM Business Partner – Projects and Official IBM Course Delivery
Course Instructor and Delivery details listed below... From May 2015 to March 2017
FRBNY – Federal Reserve Bank of New York, for IBM Corporation - November 2016 to June 2017
Compliance – Development – Analytics – Integration
Advisory and Audit Professional, Compliance and Governance – Security Services
Application Architecture Development – Production Engineering – System Integration
Windows Server Administration
J2EE Java Development – WebServices – SQL Database programming
Digital Certificates, PKI, SSL
Security (Tivoli) Directory Integrator Development (TDI / SDI)
Federal Reserve Bank - Secure controlled project, details upon request.
Development of J2EE WebServices – Rest and SOAP
Messaging – MQ Series – JMS – IIB Integration Bus
• Java Script / Java J2EE developer, Python developer, and .Net, programming of business logic for compliance
analytics, Node.js, SQL database programming, and TDI (SDI) development, WebServices development,
JavaScript, test cycle QA, automation, defect reporting, production engineering and operations management,
Splunk monitoring configuration and reporting.
Professional Technology Instructor – IBM Enterprise Software Products – Oracle – Ping - Microsoft
IBM Teaching Engagements for several Fortune 500 Companies and Federal Government plus Consulting
Courses and Labs include PKI, SSL, Digital Certificate management, Encryption
Includes Consulting Engagements on request for select customers, in addition to:
Delivered Engineering Services to TD Bank technology group, Toronto CA plus the 1-week IBM SDI / TDI course
and started the process of direct consulting for TD Bank, Toronto CA.
Delivered Engineering Services and Training to Chevron, Key Bank, American Airlines, Depository Clearing and
Trust, TD Bank, Fujitsu Corporation, NYC Dept of Education FOR IBM Security ISAM and ISIM, SDI/TDI,
PingFederated and PingAccess, Okta, Azure Directory, Sailpoint
Delivered Services and Training to Sunoco, IBM Maximo Asset Management plus Oil & Gas
Courses Delivered:
• IBM Security Identity Manager – 7.x, 8.x, 9.x (ISIM and ITIM )
• IBM Security Access Manager for Web 7.x, 8.x, 9.x (ISAM Web and Tivoli / TAM Web)
• IBM Security Access Manager for Mobile 8.x (ISAM Mobile)
• IBM Tivoli Federated Identity Manager TFIM
• IBM Security Federated Identity Manager
• IBM Tivoli Directory Integrator – Security Directory Integrator 7.x, 8.x
• Ping Identity – Ping Federated – Ping Access integration
• IBM DataPower ESB – J2EE Development – Solutions Architecture
• IBM DataPower – Administration and Deployment
• IBM WebSphere ESB – Integration Bus IIB - MQ Series
• IBM Maximo Asset Management with Oil & Gas 7.x, 8.x
• IBM Tivoli Process Automation Engine 7.x, 8.x
• Oracle and Microsoft Technology Products
Threat Analysis and Incident Response:
• Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) algorithms
• Vultnerability Testing and Management
• Penetration Testing
• Production and Application Forensics
• Network Analysis / Monitoring– Tracing and Forensics
• Infrastructure and Application Monitoring
• Cyberthreat Detection and Response
Prime Therapeutics, Minneapolis, MN. - February 2017 to August 2017
IT Security – Integration Architect and Production Engineer
Regulatory Compliance and Recommendations - Life Sciences Provider
Federated Single-Sign-On SSO, PKI, Digital Certificates
Delivered lead IT Security engineering, developing architecture and delivering the engineering solutions for Single Sign
On SSO. Technical and SME lead on IBM Security – Tivoli Federated Identity Manager TFIM. Created Federations to
enable Single Sign On to Microsoft Office 365. Microsoft Azure Cloud Directory engineering, configuration and
development, Engineering and troubleshooting of the Single Sign On federation to Office 365 and Azure, credential and
identity provider configurations, SAML 2.0 federation configuration, Micorsoft .Net, Java JEE, Java Script, testing and
remediation, technical engineering team meetings. Configuration and staging of production solutions on IBM Security
Federated Identity Manager Version 9. Delivered an upgrade migration path, and configured alternative Federated
solutions using IBM Security Federated Identity Manager Version 9.
Investigation of Architectural approach, to meet Healthcare Regulatory Compliance and certification at Prime
Therapeutics. Produced Recommendations and Finding documents for Guidance – Governance and Healthcare Compliance.
Presented these Recommendations to Prime Therapeutics principals and engineering management.
September 2013 – July 2014: Prudential Financial, Inc New York City - Chief Information Officer CIO
Enterprise and Solutions Architect, DataPower Development – Administration and Production Engineering
• Ground-breaking initiatives – led the Corporate CIO effort to define the company strategy, developed
DataPower Gateway, and ESB Enterprise and Solutions architecture for SOA and Mobile, defined
the value proposition and presented to corporate business stakeholders – large-scale IBM DataPower
ESB for the data center infrastructure.
• Defined the IBM DataPower ESB / SOA enterprise – solutions architecture, directed and
performed the Systems Integration and configuration of DataPower, gathered corporate global
requirements – produced documentation, developed Use Cases (SAML, OAuth, OpenID), architecture
diagrams, network and infrastructure diagrams, developed systems integration and systems engineering
procedures.
• Developed DataPower ESB Solutions, implemented corporate Use Cases (web and microservices) in
the corporate infrastructure, as Technical lead directed and managed team of 4 engineers, SOAP,
WebServices, XML, JSON, RESTful, WebSphere (WAS), SOA, XSDs, WSDL, API., IBM Security
ISAM, ISIM, Federated SSO, SAML, OAuth
• Developed WebMethods ESB Solutions, Integration and implementation, corporate Use Cases for
SOAP, WebServices, XML, JSON, RESTful, WebSphere (WAS), SOA, XSDs, WSDL, API.
• Installed and configured DataPower, with day-to-day Administration of DataPower appliances in
the data center infrastructure, and installed VMware lab virtualization.
• Performed the Costing Models, Recovery Analysis, Budgeting, and detailed Project Plan and Project
Management, Collaborated with Accounting VP for project Funding and Costing.
• Delivered regular Steering Committee management proposals, presentations and executive status to
Prudential senior management.
• Managed the DataPower initiative as Project Manager and Director interacting with VPs of
Infrastructure and Enterprise Computing conducting regular Planning and Progress meetings.
• Performed the key management oversight and liaison role between the Corporate CIO Office and
Infrastructure Engineering management.
Motorola Mobility Home - Google – ARRIS February 2012 to July 2013, and Feb - May of 2015
COMCAST - Xfinity Recording and Streaming – Cloud Recording and Streaming – Vod Platforms
Production Platform Engineering – Builds and Break Fix 24x7 Production Support
Senior member of Arris Motorola team, on-site at Comcast – role focused on service delivery, along with team
mentoring and vendor relationship management for Arris / Motorola. Large scale Xfinity and Cloud Recording
and Streaming build out and 24x7 production support engineering – troubleshooting – ticketing and resolution of
recording, streaming, networking, customer experience service interruptions.
Cisco Recorders and Streamers, Arris Motorola Recorders and Streamers, DDN Archives,
Linux OS systems engineering, Network engineering – Cisco and F5, National Video Feeds
Development - SOA and ESB, Linux shell programming and command line scripting, JavaScript, testing,
monitoring and alerts – configuration and reporting, defect reporting, JBoss integration, administration and
development, SQL database programming.
Xfinity break/fix
Home Web Applications – Python Development and testing – HTML, JavaScript, Firefox – Chrome – Explorer
developer tools, JavaScript - HTML testing and debugging. Selenium, FireBug, DevTools, Dynatrace,
Production Instrumentation – Nagios monitoring configuration and reporting, Splunk monitoring configuration
and and reporting, JIRA Ticketing systems, Arris and Cisco ticketing systems, Confluence Wikis, technical writing
and documentation, Team technical blogs.
Motorola Mobility Home - Google
February 2012 to July 2013
Motorola Mobility Home - Google - Full Product Life Cycle – Development – Systems Integration - Production
Engineer – Solutions Architect - along with Customer Interaction on Delivery, Design, Requirements, and Production
Engineering. Telecom Content and Service Provider (Streaming Smartphone Tablet and Cable Content - Movies,
Music, Video). ATT Merchandiser and Verizon Videoflow -- extensive formal Application SDLC Software Testing -
Defect reporting - Agile / Scrum, WebServices Gateway Security - WebSphere and JBoss - Tomcat, WebSphere ESB /
SIB Server, JMS and Messaging, Network Engineering, SAN / NAS, VM Virtualization, Requirements Definition,
Professional - management communications, Additional details upon request.
Verizon FlexView – Content Browser WebApp break/fix
Home Web Applications - Development and testing – HTML, JavaScript, Firefox – Chrome – Explorer developer tools,
JavaScript - HTML testing and debugging. Selenium, FireBug, DevTools, Dynatrace,
IBM WebSphere Administration (V8.x, V7.x, V6.x) - HA Network Deployment and HA Testing, IBM HTTP
WebServer IHS SSL and HTTPS, IBM TIVOLI Performance Monitor and tuning,
IBM Process Server Administration (V8.x, V7.x).
Windows 2008 – 2014 Server Microsoft .NET Applications, Microsoft IIS Applications and Workflow, Active
Directory – LDAP, Digital Certificates – PKI, Load Balancers / SSL (F5, Cisco), DNS, NAT, FTP – SFTP.
My daily responsibilities - Advanced Production and Data Center Systems Engineering for ATT, Verizon and
Motorola - Delivered the service provider Production Data Center support and installation, Large scale Systems
Integration work centered on the telecom service providers ISP and customer-facing applications -- RedHat Linux, Shell
Scripting, Production Monitoring and Alerts, advanced data center Networking, Load Balancers / SSL – F5 Big IP,
CISCO, Java - J2EE Application Specialist, Spring Framework, Hibernate - IBM WebSphere Administrator (V8.x, V7.x,
V6.x) – WebServices Gateway Security - HA Network Deployment and HA Testing, IBM TIVOLI Performance Monitor
and tuning, IBM Process Server Administrator, JBoss App server Administrator, Windows 2008 Server – IIS
Applications and Workflow, WebServices - WebSphere and JBoss - Tomcat, WebSphere ESB / SIB Server, JMS and
Messaging, FTP, SFTP, DNS, JavaScript, testing, defect reporting, Oracle 11g RAC - SQL scripting developer, PL/SQL
developer, Stored Procedures, Packages, Views, Triggers, High Availability failover clustering, MySQL Clustering - SQL
Scripting, SQL Server scripting and T-SQL, Data Center Virtualization - VMWare Administration - Linux VMs,
Relationship management with end-customers and internal support customers.
Positions prior to 2011
IBM Corporation – IT Security Product Specialist, EAI Integration, CVS Pharmacy HQ, Rhode Island
Solutions Architect - Tivoli Software Services Group
Design, Installation, Configuration, Administration and Support of Tivoli Access Manager, Policy Server (TAM 6.x),
on AIX 6.x, Linux 5.x and Solaris 9, Solaris 10, ITIM 5.x installation, TAMeb 6.x and TAM OS 6 installation,
implemented PKI Digital Certificates, Encryption. Performed LDAP - DIT and Schema, DB Tuning and Replication
for Sun Directory. Developed LDAP and Unix scripting, Trained staff, performed Project Management, developed
TAM Automation for deployment, configured polices and, installed and configured multiple endpoints. Deployed
TAMeb Web Portal Manager, managed resources including WebSeals, and TAM OS Endpoints on each OS.
Senior Development Manager and Technical PM – OTCNet Development Team
U.S. Treasury – FMS
Washington, D.C.
Managed the OTCnet Application Development team for the US Treasury Deposits, Check Capture and Processing
system. Development Manager – Federal Enterprise Architect, Project Manager, planning, day-to-day leadership
and direction of staff consisting of a 20-person Development team. Provided the Direction and Leadership of multi-
discipline teams including Booz Allen Hamilton, US Treasury FMS, TWAI Treasury – Federal Reserve Data Center
engineering, HP/EDS, and Citigroup production support teams.
Led the OTCnet Requirements Definition and Sign-off for US Treasury, Booz Allen and Citigroup Banking and
Market Products Technology Group. Performed the Business Analyst role, defined and documented Functional
Requirements, generated process flow diagrams, use cases, and resolved business requirements issues.
Directed multiple Agency Onboarding efforts, including inter-agency coordination, design and integration of OTCnet
for DOD, IRS, DECA. Represented OTCnet at inter-agency meetings and conferences.
Performed the leadership role in CIO Council – Federal Enterprise Architecture, defined and clarified Agency goals for
US Treasury – FMS, designed OTCnet Service-oriented Architectures aligned with Federal Enterprise Architectures
for FMS. Designed OTCnet software architectures aligned to FIPS, FISMA, NIST and FEA guidelines and standards.
Contributed to the Technical application and security design and implementation, Design and integration of IBM
Tivoli ITIM and SSO solutions across several agencies. ITIM application integration and interfacing to security
stacks, LDAP - DIT and Schema, Replication and RBAC access control. Data Warehouse - Big Data using Cognos
and WebFocus BI – Information Builders. Development of SSO and WebLogic J2EE Web Applications, Spring
Framework, Hibernate, Message Broker, and DataPower integrations, WebMethods integration, directed Software
Security Code Reviews in compliance with Federal and Industry guidelines. Guided and directed the formal QA -
Application Testing process with Booz Allen, improved the development, testing and software defect reporting
processes
Technical lead and Data Warehouse Architect – Healthcare Informatics – Data Science
New Jersey MMIS - Data Warehouse – Big Data Analytics – BI DSS
Medicare / Medicaid – Hospital and Pharmacy – Patient / Citizen Trend and Case Monitoring
US Federal funded $18M - State Medicare / Medicaid Data Warehouse
Technical lead of a team of 15, in the Design and Architecture of Healthcare Data Analytics Data Warehouse – Big
Data. Healthcare patient Usage and Trend Analysis Dashboards, Disease Staging, Pattern Analysis, Data Mining and
OLAP reporting,
Oracle DBA, SQL development, Database creation, tables, indexes, views, stored procedures and triggers. Implemented
Oracle Data Warehouse tools for OLAP / MOLAP and Data Mining. Utilized the leading experts in Data Mining and
OLAP from ORACLE Corporation’s Darwin (Data Mining) – Cray/Thinking Machines Big Data Group.
Developed Data Warehouse in Oracle RDBMS, Data Models in ER/Win, ETL, OLAP and Data Mining applications in
Oracle OLAP, Darwin, Tableau, SAS, Oracle Reports/Graphics, PL/SQL, Oracle Data Warehouse Builder and Oracle
Application Server (OAS).
Implemented using Oracle Data Warehouse Cognos tools. and SQL Server BI SSIS – DW Design. Directed and produced
the RFP Response to the State of NJ Data Warehouse project, partnered with Oracle and the Sun Microsystems King of
Prussia, PA office. Interviewed State Healthcare Administrators for Requirements Gathering and Functional Design.
New York City, Wall Street - Bridge Financial Market Data Services – ADP Brokerage
• Product Development of GOVPX – US Treasury Securities Trading and Market Data Information Product
• “Quote Terminal” Engineering - Merrill Lynch Prism – Smith Barney – Citigroup - Market Data
Services, Major Exchange Feeds- Product Engineer, Functional Design, Satellite Data Feed Engineering.
Investment Banking Specialist – Solutions Architect - “Big Data” Markets – Research – Equites and Fixed Income
- Trading Systems Functional and Systems Team Director - Lead Software Engineer and Architect – Advanced
Investment Calculations – Financial Math, Stock Price, Dividends, Splits, Mutual Fund Genesis / Creation / Pricing,
Trading and Research, Corporate Actions, Financial Statements Analysis. Quantitative Modeling.
Big Data Architect – Developer and Innovator of the ground-breaking “Big Data” expert (heuristic) Data
Warehouse (VQUEST) including NYSE – NASDAQ market data, corporate financial data, trending and Neural Network
development, statistical calculations, data modeling, Hadoop product suite – full coverage on several Big Data and
analytics applications. SQL Server BI – DSS, MOLAP.
Quantitative and Fundamental Analysis - DuPont Pension Fund Investment – DuPont team manager and director
for Quantitative Fund Design and Development, Big Data Data Warehouse, SAS and Statistical Modeling, Equities and
Fixed Income.
Led teams composed of Bankers, Fund Managers, and Big ‘6’ consultants and IT staff in the design and development of
high-performance Commercial Banking Systems, Investment Management Systems, and Financial Market Data and
Securities and Trading Systems. Hadoop product suite – full coverage on several Big Data and analytics applications,
SQL Server BI – DSS, MOLAP, Informatica, Oracle Data Warehouse tools. Delivered from inception-to-implementation
large-scale Decision Support(DSS)/Data Warehousing for the Core Management of leading Financial Mutual Fund
companies, Pension Fund companies and Life Sciences – Healthcare, and Insurance companies.
.
Education
M.S./M.B.A., Technology Management – La Salle University, Philadelphia, PA 2009, GPA 3.7
B.S., Computer Science – LaSalle University, Philadelphia, PA
Post-Graduate course work – Drexel University, Villanova University
Scholastic Letter, Honors Academics - LaSalle College High School, Wyndmoor, PA
Certifications
Federal CIO Council University Certificate in Federal Executive Competencies - and applied Management experience
Certified Summit-D Project Manager – Process Management, Price Waterhouse Coopers (PWC), MS / PMP
Certified Unix / Linux Systems Administrator, Certified Sun Java Programmer
Sun Certified Instructor – Networking, Linux / Unix, Java Programming, Oracle Database DBA and Programming
IBM Certified Instructor, IBM WebSphere SOA, IBM Tivoli TAM - ISAM, ISIM - ITIM, CISSP
Data Warehousing - Business Intelligence – Big Data Masters program, LaSalle University
MS SQL Server 2005,TSQL, Cubes, ETL, SSIS, Dashboards, Cognos Power Play, Course Grade “A”
COMPETENCIES
Business Management Program / Project Management
• Strategic Planning • Performance Metrics
• Recovery Models and Costing • Status Reporting - Presentations
• Collaboration • Task Decomposition
• Process Improvement • Budget / Staff Estimates
• Risk Assessment / Mitigation • Technical Performance Measures
• Requirements Analysis • Establish Repeatable Processes
• Documentation • Project Manager – Project Planning
Technical Knowledge
• Enterprise Architecture Performance Management
• Software Development • Executive / Management Coaching
• Systems Engineering Process SDLC • Collaboration and Dialogue
• Production and Systems Engineering • Diverse Team Builder
• Database Systems • Mentoring / Training / Instructor
• Repeatable Processes • Soft Skill Development
• Technical Writing – Documentation • ISO / CMM / Agile
TECHNOLOGY – SKILLS
➢ Enterprise Architecture – Lead Software Engineer, WebServices Gateway Security, JSON RESTful
and SOAP WebServices, OAuth, B2B, and B2C, B2E. SOA – Messaging, Message Broker, Pub
Subscribe, MQ JMS, WebMethods, VMware, Hadoop product suite – full coverage on several Big Data
and analytics applications.
IBM WebSphere ESB, IBM DataPower Gateway ESB, WebLogic, Oracle Application Server, JBoss,
Tomcat, MS IIS WebServer.
Java and J2EE, Python, Node.js, React.js and React Native, Angular.js, Jquery, Javascript, C and C++
programming, Microsoft .NET, ASP, C#, Visual C++, VB, Script, PowerBuilder.
➢ Digital and Mobile - Digital Apps and Mobile Apps design and architecture, development, integration,
Lightweight RESTful WebServices for Mobile, OAuth, Web Application design and integration.
➢ Production Engineering and Systems Integrator, Linux OS, Unix and Windows 2008 OS Admin,
Systems Engineering, Network Engineering, troubleshooting, OS installation and patching, Linux – Unix
Shell Scripting, Metrics, OS Monitoring and Alerts, OS Performance Tuning, Virtualization, WebLogic
and IBM WebSphere administrator, J2EE Enterprise Application integration, installation and testing
SDLC – Agile / Scrum, CMM.
➢ Big Data - Data Warehousing – Business Intelligence – Decision Support Systems, Design and
Development with Production Implementation of large-scale expert Data Warehouses, Big Data, Life
Sciences – Healthcare – Pharma, Financial Markets Research – Securities Industry, eCommerce
Marketing, US Treasury – Global Commercial Banking. SQL Server BI – DSS, MOLAP , SQL
Programming, SAS programming, Oracle 11 RAC, SQL Server, IBM DB2, Stored Procedures. Hadoop
product suite – full coverage on several Big Data and analytics applications. Experienced DBA in
production and development, data management, performance tuning, data structures.
➢ IT Security, Expert IBM Securty ISAM ISIM SDI TDI Tivoli TAM and TIM / FTIM Production
Implementations – Installation / Development and Configuration. Identity Management and SSO – TIM
/ FTIM, Microsoft Active Directory, Oracle IM, Siteminder. Ping Federated, Ping ID, Ping Access, LDAP
Directory Servers – Schema Design and programming, x.509 Certificates, Encryption, SmartCard ID and
several authentication technologies, SAML, OAuth, OpenID
➢ APPLIED MATHEMATICAL PROGRAMMING – in the Physical Sciences, Financial Markets,
Computer Sciences and Software Products.
o Developed FDA Bio-Assay drug potency calculations for Bristol Myers Squibb labs, Princeton
NJ.
o Developed Advanced Data Analytics in Life Sciences Population Health Big Data applications
o Developed Advanced Data Analytics in Investment Banking – Financial calculations for
Quantitative and Fundamental securities research products, Financial Market Data Services
companies, Wall Street - NYC.
o Advanced Civil Engineering design and mathematical programming of vehicle load – bridge
stress and road height calculations for PennDOT. Spatial Data – RMS / GPS road database
programming, route and path optimization calculations, statistics.
o Graphics and Modeling, developed equations for graphical modeling and display programming.
o Google Maps – APIs, Geospatial calculations and coordinates mapping
o Database Product Developer, Princeton, NJ – Statistical programming, optimization and path
calculations.
